{\rtf\ansi\deff0\widowctrl \f0\fs20 
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green255\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}
{\f2\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}}
{\stylesheet {\widctlpar \f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\widctlpar \f1\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext1 Quotation;}
{\s2\widctlpar \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul \sbasedon0\snext2 Heading 1;}
{\s3\widctlpar \f0\fs24\sb200\keepn\sa200\b \sbasedon0\snext3 Heading 2;}
{\s4\widctlpar \f0\fs20\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \sbasedon0\snext4 Header;}
{\s5\widctlpar \f0\fs24\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \sbasedon0\snext0 TOC 1;}
{\s6\widctlpar \f0\fs20\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \sbasedon0\snext0 Index 1;}}
\par \par {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.3 to 4.2.3.1 (October 2009)}Changes from 4.2.3 to 4.2.3.1 (October 2009)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Francis Devereux made the OS X port compile on Mac OS X 10.6. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.2 to 4.2.3 (October 2009)}Changes from 4.2.2 to 4.2.3 (October 2009)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fix fnstsw compile bug with newer binutils. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Trent Gamblin made a small change to the Windows mouse driver to add 
support for touchscreens (at least 1 of them). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter De Wachter made the ALSA driver work for hardware which does not 
support unsigned samples. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton fixed a problem with filename encoding and the SYSTEM_NONE 
driver.  Added set_filename_encoding(), get_filename_encoding(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica made the MinGW and MSVC makefiles add the suffix "_c" onto 
non-asm builds, and clarified that user programs linking against the 
non-asm libraries must also defined ALLEGRO_USE_C.  Mixing calling 
conventions causes segfaults when functions are inlined. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 AJ added detection for SSSE3, SSE4.1 and SSE4.2 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 David A. Capello made key_shifts work properly on Windows for Control, 
Alt, and Shift. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Clarified that set_config_file() does not search for the given config file 
in other locations, as Allegro does with allegro.cfg at initialization. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed buffer overflow in exgui. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed problems with newer versions of autoconf. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.2 RC1 to 4.2.2 (July 2007)}Changes from 4.2.2 RC1 to 4.2.2 (July 2007)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton added build instructions for DMC and updated the MSVC 
project files and instructions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton added a shell script wrapper around gcc to build universal 
binaries (i386 + PPC) on Mac OS X and made the Allegro makefile use it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull reenabled the Quit menu option on Mac OS X when 
set_close_button_callback is used. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Rikard Peterson fixed the Mac OS X joystick driver so that 
HID_ELEMENT_STANDALONE_AXIS axes correctly got the flag JOYFLAG_UNSIGNED 
and not JOYFLAG_DIGITAL. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton fixed a problem with the GDI driver blitting a rectangle 
smaller than the bitmap's height that touches the bottom left corner of a 
bitmap. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Some minor changes. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.1 to 4.2.2 RC1 (July 2007)}Changes from 4.2.1 to 4.2.2 RC1 (July 2007)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton added project files for MSVC 6/7/8 (see the build 
directory and Allegro Wiki for instructions). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton added initial support for the Digital Mars C compiler 
(for the Windows port).  It only works with the C-only port and 
obj\\dmc\\plugins.h needs to be built by hand. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang cleaned up most of the autoconf namespace pollution. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Smith made a fix for C locking code in GDI. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Trent Gamblin made the fullscreen DirectX driver save and restore the 
palette when switching away and back in 8-bit video modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added missing documentation for pack_ungetc(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Trent Gamblin fixed the C version of stretch_blit so it now draws 
correctly. He also made it about 20% faster along the way. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 orz and Matthew Leverton made the ALLEGRO_USE_C=1 option to work under 
MinGW and MSVC. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Erno Schwetter fixed a long-standing bug in polygon() where the 
bottom-most pixels would not be drawn. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Anthony 'Timorg' Cassidy made d_menu_proc fill up its assigned area with 
the gui_bg_color. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Phil Krylov fixed a bug that prevented load_bios_font() from loading 8x16 
fonts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Etienne Vouga fixed a bug with the reset_controllers MIDI command. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica fixed a double SWITCH_IN event callback bug when 
de-minimizing an Allegro program in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Erno Schwetter fixed a bug where __al_linux_console_fd was used in 
display_switch_lock() without the console being initialized first. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Erno Schwetter fixed an unbalanced __al_linux_console_graphics() call. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ryan Patterson fixed a crash in free_config_entries. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added support for horizontal wheel mice (so far, only the 
X11 driver reports any horizontal wheel movement though). Also increased 
the number of supported mouse buttons from 3 to 5 for the X11 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jon Rafkind and Karthik Kumar fixed a problem where allegro-config would 
respect neither --libdir nor --includedir. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed some problems with the ALSA MIDI driver in the case of 
failure. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 torhu fixed a bug in akaitest where an array was indexed with -1. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Trent Gamblin implemented set_mouse_speed under X11.  Peter Wang made 
setting stick only while the cursor is in the Allegro window. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added desktop_color_depth and get_desktop_resolution to the 
Linux fbcon driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton fixed building of universal binaries on MacOS X. This 
currently requires OS X 10.4 on both PPC and Intel. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Miminca made the fbcon driver initialization fail if an unsupported 
color depth was set. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Molhanec and Milan Mimica simplified the MSVC build process 
and updated the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman made the MSVC makefile compatible with cygwin port of 
make-3.81 (and newer?). makefile.vc now uses cygpath tool to convert DOS 
8.3 paths to unix-style paths. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder added a functions is_trans_font, font_has_alpha. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder made load_txt_font() additionally search for files 
referenced in the font script in the same directory as the script itself. 
It still searches in the current working directory first (for relative 
paths). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder documented that register_assert_handler() and 
register_trace_handler() can be called before initialising Allegro. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder prevented the Windows port from registering its default 
trace handler on initialisation if the user had previously registered a 
custom trace handler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman modified the 6-to-8 bit value scaling tables to be more 
evenly distributed, and changed the implementation of 
create_blender_table() to create a more evenly distributed distribution of 
the lower 2 bits.  It should be faster as well. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Other minor bug fixes and documentation updates. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.1 RC1 to 4.2.1 (November 2006)}Changes from 4.2.1 RC1 to 4.2.1 (November 2006)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made the Unix ports query the memory page size with sysconf() 
when necessary, instead of using the PAGE_SIZE constant, which seems to be 
Linux-specific. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton gave the STATICRUNTIME builds of MSVC new names by 
appending _crt (c run time) to the libraries. He also fixed the problem of 
incorrectly setting the EMBED_MANIFEST variable when using the 
STATICRUNTIME. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman fixed an inverted test in pack_fopen_chunk on Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull made 32-bit icon generation by fixbundle endian-independent 
(colours were incorrect on Intel Macs). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a long standing bug where some compressed packfiles would not 
be read back properly (premature EOF).  Reported by jman2050. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman spotted a free() of an internal buffer returned by tmpnam(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed a problem with mouse-related deadlock on MacOS X as 
reported by Mike Farrell. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull implemented simulation of video bitmaps on MacOS X, so that 
page flipping will work. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed an endian problem in the digital sound driver on MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig and Chris Robinson fixed problems with UTF-8 filenames 
under Unix, as reported by Grzegorz.  Non-ASCII non-UTF-8 filenames remain 
broken. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson fixed some problems with non-ASCII filenames under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made the X11 driver call XInitThreads, to make Mesa-OpenGL 
work together with Allegro.  It can be disabled at runtime through a config 
variable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman fixed a bug in datedit.c that could crash the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added file_size_ex(), which returns a 64 bit integer 
to handle large files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ron Novy made improvements to the test program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed problems with set_mouse_sprite() on Intel Macs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull added universal binary support to the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang and Evert Glebbeek independently fixed a problem with dependency 
generation for MacOS X on non-Mac systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many smaller fixes and updates by Peter Hull, Elias Pschernig, Peter Wang 
and Milan Mimica. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.0 to 4.2.1 RC1 (May 2006)}Changes from 4.2.0 to 4.2.1 RC1 (May 2006)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Molhanec made msvchelp.exe work on Cygwin, where there was a 
problem with the case-insensitivity of environment variables. Reported by 
Milan Mimica. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed a bug where Allegro detected keypresses on 
KEY_MINUS_PAD as KEY_PLUS_PAD. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull made OSX work correctly with Logitech sticks, as discussed 
with Ultio. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica fixed some spin loops in the test program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson added UTF8/Unicode support for filenames in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica made the Linux console driver more robust: 
set_gfx_mode used to get stuck in a infinite loop when there wasn't a 
console available. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek made the C blitter use memmove for normal blits, with a bugfix 
by Milan Mimica. This can be disabled by removing a #define USE_MEMMOVE at 
the top of cblit.h so that it can easliy be tested against the older versions 
of the code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Christer Sandberg worked around a problem where one-line high bitmaps would 
crash with  Electric Fence. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson fixed a crash that occurred if the sound mixer quality 
level was set to 0 after the mixer was already initialised. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed the window title under X11, which was broken by a 
previous change. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull updated the endian detection under OSX as recommended by Apple. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Miguel A. Gavidia and Jay Bernardo made qtmidi.m work on both PPC and Intel. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica fixed a crash when vsync() on certain drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig replaced the ALLEGRO_USE_C define with ALLEGRO_NO_ASM. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang restored the JACK driver to compiling state. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica made the new transparent fonts be recognized as color fonts 
with is_color_font. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made the modules path WIP version specific, for enhanced 
binary compatibility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stijn Wolters clarified the documentation of init_dialog. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hans de Goede fixed a problem with dynamically generated stretcher code not 
being properly marked as executable on Linux (esp. SELinux). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hans de Goede fixed a busy wait in the X11 vsync simulation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig makde it so modules under Unix are now searched in libdir 
as passed by the build machinery. Closes bug #1401840 from SF, reported by 
Paul Eipper. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica added a get_volume and a get_hardware_volume function, to 
work as pendants to set_volume and set_hardware_volume. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica corrected a case where a wrong structure on the stack was 
being cleared in the DirectSound input driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hans de Goede added a fullscreen driver for X11 which does not need 
XVidMode extension, and instead simply centers the window on the desktop 
and draws a black border around. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hans de Goede fixed a problem where switching to fullscreen mode under X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Serge Semashko added Enter as a fire key in the demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Serge Semashko added fixed problems with Allegro working on Nokia 770. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed some problems with binary compatibility checking in the 
4.2 branch. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Catatonic Porpoise added OpenBSD detection (in addition to FreeBSD and 
NetBSD) and fixed an issue with executable rights not set on the memory 
for the i386 stretcher on UNIX systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hans de Goede fixed a bug preventing the ALSA driver to work on big endian 
systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig and Chris Robinson fixed binary compatibility checking in 
allegro_init and install_allegro. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Catatonic Porpoise fixed the example in the documentation of 
stretch_sprite. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hans de Goede made DIGMID work with absolute paths in the patches.cfg file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull added code to make Allegro work better with user-supplied Nibs 
under OSX, as discussed with Thomas Harte. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton added embedding of manifests to the MSVC 8 build process. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Neil Walker and Thomas Harte implemented a hardware accelerated 
stretch_blit() for the Windows DX port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek corrected a bug when destroying sub-bitmaps under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug in pack_fopen_chunk() where a temporary file 
would be created in a non-writable location. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang changed a "/lib" option to MSVC's link utility to "-lib" as 
reported to be problematic by Karthik Kumar. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a crash in dat and grabber due to the return value of 
pack_fopen_chunk() not being checked. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added support for anti-aliased bitmap fonts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Dennis Busch fixed the short description of add_clip_rect. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Thomas Harte and Neil Walker fixed a problem with draw_sprite() and 
sub-bitmaps. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed scancode_to_name(KEY_NUMLOCK) returning "PAUSE" in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed page flipping and triple buffering in the demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added list_config_sections and list_config_entries 
functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hrvoje Ban added create_datafile_index and load_datafile_object_indexed 
functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull allowed use of "mingw" instead of  "mingw32" in fix.bat and 
fix.sh. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a bug with SWITCH_BACKAMNESIA mode with the fbcon graphics 
driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made the svgalib driver save and restore the palette on VT 
switches. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a problem with the fbcon driver and VT switching. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica delayed Linux console initialisation until it is required. 
This way the user can write command-line programs using timers  without 
needing a real console. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Jones fixed behavior of numeric keys when NumLock is on. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penecherc'h worked around a problem with 24-bit bitmaps in 
the assembler code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Tobias Dammers fixed a problem with the DirectSound input driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton fixed Ctrl-Alt-Del mistakenly being captured by Allegro 
under Windows 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penecherc'h improved the implementation of set_ramp_cmap in the 
fbcon driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penecherc'h implemented get_refresh_rate for the fbcon driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penecherc'h fixed problems with the fbcon driver not restoring the 
original video mode when the driver exits. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Victor Williams Stafusa da Silva made OS type detection handle Windows 2003 
and Windows Vista. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Jones and Vincent Penecherc'h fixed load_wav to handle degenerate 
stereo wave files with an odd length. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes fixed all sorts of problems with the linux evdev mouse driver 
when using a tablet as the mouse. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes made the linux evdev mouse driver use the correct device files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penecherc'h made the linux fbcon driver set a ramp colourmap for 
directcolor modes, otherwise colours in those modes were all wrong. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penecherc'h fixed a problem with the linux fbcon driver, where it 
would keep using the old pitch after changing resolutions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Serge Semashko fixed a typo causing crashs in 
_linear_draw_trans_rgba_rle_sprite24. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes fixed cursor speed and incorrect mickey computation bugs in 
the Linux evdev mouse driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penecherc'h made the Linux PS/2 mouse driver try /dev/input/mice 
by default, in addition to /dev/mouse. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Warnings, code formatting and minor changes to code and build system 
by Milan Mimica, Evert Glebbeek, Elias Pschernig, Peter Wang, Peter 
Hull, Thomas Harte, Vincent Penecherc'h and Chris Robinson. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Documentation updates by Tore Halse, Elias Pschernig, Milan Mimica, 
Peter Wang, Physics Dave, Ryan Patterson, Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz, 
Andrei Ellman and Evert Glebbeek. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.0 RC2 to 4.2.0 (November 2005)}Changes from 4.2.0 RC2 to 4.2.0 (November 2005)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made fixmul() detect overflows as it used to do in the 4.0.x 
branch. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed a bug in the fixbundle utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Dennis Busch found a bug where d_clear_proc would not work properly if the 
GUI target bitmap is different from screen. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made Allegro log all TRACE output with a prefix 
in the format "al-system level: ". This makes it easier to grep debug logs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made dialogs with MSG_CHAR/MSG_UCHAR handlers 
honor a D_CLOSE return flag without a D_USED_CHAR. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed problems with the mouse position as reported by Allegro and 
the mouse position as known to OS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull made Command-Q not close the application if no exit-button 
callback is registered. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed problems with joysticks under MacOS X as reported by 
Thomas Harte. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed a bug preventing more than one Allegro application from 
being run at a time on Mac OS X. Reported by Thomas Harte. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull did a lot of other things for the MacOS X port too. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jiri Gabriel fixed loading of multiple ranges in a single bitmap with txt 
fonts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica and Jiri Gabriel fixed several bugs in extract_font_range. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Dennis Busch fixed a Unicode bug in the mode selector. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added FA_ALL and FA_NONE file attribute flags. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed a deadlock in OS X when calling vsync() while the screen 
was acquired. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert Alfonso fixed a grabber crash when importing a new font range into an 
existing font. Reported by Milan Mimica. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson fixed the fileselector in UNIXnot properly recognising 
filenames containing UTF-8 characters. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hrvoje Ban and Peter Wang wrote a documentation section that explains 
several common mistakes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig disabled DGA auto-detection under X11 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 i_am_drv added support for .rmi midis to the midi reader 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a fix-point overflow in pivot_sprite. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Molhanec fixed several problems with the Watcom compiler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed an error with 'make uninstall' on MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton added a programs: makefile target. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many small fixes and improvements by Michal Molhanec, Peter Hull, Chris 
Robinson, Peter Wang and Elias Pschernig. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Documentation improvements by Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz, Tore Halse and 
Peter Hull. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.0 RC1 to 4.2.0 RC2 (August 2005)}Changes from 4.2.0 RC1 to 4.2.0 RC2 (August 2005)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grady Martin made the grabber consider deleting object properties as a 
change to the datafile. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica fixed numerous bugs in extract_font_range(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull moved the 'magic chdir' in the MacOS X port to earlier in the 
startup process, so that the config file will be looked for in the 
resource directory if is present. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson made create_bitmap(0,0) not return a bitmap that would 
later crash destroy_bitmap().  Zero-sized bitmaps are still not allowed so 
the assertions for debug mode have not changed. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig patched the Windows keyboard driver to get key_shifts 
working again with KB_SHIFT_FLAG, KB_CTRL_FLAG, KB_ALT_FLAG on Win98. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang changed hline and vline into aliases for internal symbols to 
avoid a conflict with the curses API. This change should be transparent 
for users. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton and Michal Molhanec updated the build system for MSVC 8. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz prevented make_relative_filename() from crashing 
with malformed parameters. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hrvoje Ban made ASSERT() actually abort in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson made GUI menus work with gui_screen. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed reading of 32 bit Windows .bmp files, which was not 
supported.  These files seem to be not very standard though, so it's 
unclear if it will always do the right thing.  Alpha channels also seem 
not to be standard in 32 bit BMP files, so it's possible they're not read 
in correctly. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang and Peter Hull updated the ABI compatibility document.  This 
documents our policy for the 4.2.x series. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Extensive documentation updates from Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz and minor 
updates due to Michael Faerber, Robert Ohannessian and Milan Mimica. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.0 beta 4 to 4.2.0 RC1 (August 2005)}Changes from 4.2.0 beta 4 to 4.2.0 RC1 (August 2005)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed the MacOS X port to avoid an issue with the dead bootstrap 
context and cleaned up the dock notification. This means command line 
apps (with SYSTEM_NONE) run without the dock being notified. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang Added a COLORCONV_KEEP_ALPHA flag, as suggested by Gideon Weems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed issues with OSS in OpenBSD and made the configure script 
print a warning if Allegro is compiled without X11 support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull set the compatibility version to 4.2.0 for MacOS X and added a 
MacOS X help file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made the Mode-X and VBE/AF drivers fail if Allegro is compiled 
as a C-only library in Linux and made the Unix port install liballeg*.so 
and the alleg-*.so modules with the execute permission enabled. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grady Martin standardised some of the grabber dialog boxes and added a `move' 
command to the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug when loading some old datafiles containing 
monochrome fonts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug that prevented system cursors from working 
correctly in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Olivier Blin fixed compilation problems for the ModeX driver with newer 
binutils. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Shawn Walker fixed a bug in get_executable_name under some UNIX systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Shawn Walker worked around a problem with some versions of GNU AS and fixed 
some errors in the configure script when not using GCC. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made create_sample not unnecessarily clear the sample to 0. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Bobby Ferris fixed the makedoc SciTE API output. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a too strict assert that prevented set_volume from 
working in debug mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Paavo Ahola helped fix a problem with BCC and the C implementations of 
fixmul. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a cosmetic bug where the listbox was drawing a too big 
selection rectangle, reported by dthompson. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Documentation and example updates by Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz, Peter 
Wang, Elias Pschernig Michal Molhanec and Evert Glebbeek. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.0 beta 3 to 4.2.0 beta 4 (June 2005)}Changes from 4.2.0 beta 3 to 4.2.0 beta 4 (June 2005)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton changed the default behavior of the grabber: default color 
depth is now the desktop, default mode is windowed and if fullscreen is 
specified, then desktop resolution is used by default. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed compilation problems related to get_modex_screen() on 
UNIX and deprecated it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert Ohannessian fixed compilation problems for the assembler code with 
newer binutils. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang, Thomas Harte and Evert Glebbeek optimised fixmul() for different 
platforms. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert Alfonso fixed a couple of warnings that with DJGPP. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made the FLIC player yield. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Miran Amon fixed an arbitrary limit in get_config_argv(). Evert Glebbeek 
fixed a memory leak in same. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Thomas Klausner fixed a problem in allegro.m4 and automake 1.8+. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Charles Wardlaw fixed some warnings with gcc 4 on MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig removed the `256 items' limit from the dat utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Julien Cugniere fixed a crash in the GUI if a new dialog was opened while 
a menu was still open. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Shawn Walker fixed crashes with the keyboard driver under Solaris. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig split the demo game into multiple files and made the 
makefile handle a multi-file demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug where the hardware mouse wasn't displayed in 
Windows until the mouse was moved. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 J.P. Morris fixed rest_callback() under UNIX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Shawn Walker and Evert Glebbeek fixed get_executable_name() under 
Solaris and OpenBSD. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed compilation problems with setAppleMenu under Tiger. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed a deadlock on MacOS X related to mouse updating. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a problem with compiling the VBE/AF driver using newer 
binutils. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug with colour conversions when loading a font from 
a datafile. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many code, example and documentation updates by Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz, 
Elias Pschernig, Peter Wang, Evert Glebbeek, Andrei Ellman, 
Victor Williams Stafusa da Silva, Matthew Leverton, AJ, Michal Molhanec 
and Hrvoje Ban. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.0 beta 2 to 4.2.0 beta 3 (May 2005)}Changes from 4.2.0 beta 2 to 4.2.0 beta 3 (May 2005)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz did several documentation updates. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek cleaned up some of the global namespace pollution in the 
Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson made improvements to the Windows sound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson made the GUI multi-selection box behave a bit nicer. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added a bunch of ASSERTs to the code to check for 
out-of-range arguments. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jakub Wasilewski fixed a bug when loading greyscale TGA images. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug where the bottom and right line of pixels was 
not updated on show_video_bitmap, as pointed out by Thomas Harte. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek documented JOY_TYPE_* defines for Windows and Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Dark Nation restored the ability to read old-style encrypted packfiles, 
i.e. those produced before Allegro 3.9.30.  This was silently removed 
from 4.1.18 when custom packfile support / decoupled compression routines 
were added. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek made the grabber and dat utilities now use Allegro's builtin 
load_font() function and made datafiles properly store truecolour fonts and 
added a datedit_select() callback to datedit. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed some unsafe assumptions on the size of integer 
data types. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Arthur Huillet fixed a typo in the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig restored Alt+key = ASCII code 0 behavior for the Windows 
keyboard driver 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug that caused a crash when loading Allegro 1.x 
datafiles containing 4 bit bitmaps. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang clarified the mode select documentation and made the mode 
selector clear the input variables before passing them on to the filter. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a bug in the mode selector where disabled drivers were 
still shown with empty resolution lists. Pointed out by Hrvoje Ban. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed Allegro's internal multithreading in Windows. This 
fixes a deadlock on exit. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert Alfonso made the MSVC makefile call `link /lib' rather than `lib', 
which doesn't work for the free toolkit. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed a problem with hardware cursors not working properly in 
MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull added a missing enable_hardware_cursor vtable entry and added OS 
native cursors for the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz documented the online Allegro patch generator. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek renamed datafiles._tx -> datafile._tx 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 StApostol updated the FAQ to use rest(0) instead of the deprecated yield_timeslice(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek silenced some GCC4 warnings in MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed warnings and errors with gcc 4.0.0 on the Unix port; 
reported by Milan Mimica. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang added the preprocessor symbol ALLEGRO_NO_FIX_CLASS that the user 
can define to not pull in the `fix' class in C++ programs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang removed the exdodgy example. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed another X11 async reply bug. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made the seek in expackf test work with CR/LF line endings. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a small bug that prevented the Allegro template for 
Project Builder from installing correctly on MacOSX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig enabled warnings about unused variables with 
--enable-strictwarn in unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a warning with Watcom 1.3. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.2.0 beta 1 to 4.2.0 beta 2 (April 2005)}Changes from 4.2.0 beta 1 to 4.2.0 beta 2 (April 2005)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder fixed a problem with the makefile in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug that prevented true colour fonts from working. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a possible deadlock in dialog_message. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a bug where the DJGPP version would choke on a missing 
variable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull made makedoc return an error code if it failed to build the 
SciTE documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a problem with incorrect dependencies being generated 
for MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Tobi Vollebregt fixed a problem in X11 if the XRGBACursor extension was 
missing. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek made configure use k8 rather than athlon64 as a compiler 
switch on AMD64. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang and Elias Pschernig added a packfile example. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Molhanec fixed a problem in the MSVC makefile. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek removed void*-arithmetic from the colour converter. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug where hardware cursors would stop working. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig, Andrew Chew fixed and Tobi Vollebregt fixed several 
problems with the Windows keyboard driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed bug in unix dependency generation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made the GUI not mess up the hardware cursor. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig removed pckeys.c and keyconf from the windows port, since 
the dinput driver no longer needs pckeys.c nor uses keyboard.dat. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder fixed a problem with the -mtune switch on older gcc based 
compilers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton figured out which versions of Watcom have inttypes.h and 
stdint.h. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 V Karthik Kumar added a password to the Windows screensaver example. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Cosmetic fixes, example bugfixes and spelling corrections by Jon Rafkind, 
Evert Glebbeek, Peter Wang, StApostol and Elias Pschernig. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.18 to 4.2.0 beta (March 2005)}Changes from 4.1.18 to 4.2.0 beta (March 2005)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed many problems on AMD64 in Linux - it should now work fine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull added CPU detection to the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed some problems related to /usr/local/bin not existing in 
recent versions of MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig and Peter Wang rewrote the Windows keyboard driver so it 
no longer needs keyboard.dat. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added a show_os_cursor function as an alternative to 
show_mouse() for system cursors. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek and Peter Wang added an example programme for system cursors. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a deadlocks in X11 related to scare_mouse() and 
keyboard repeats and fixed async replies. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder fixed the gcc -mcpu is deprecated warnings. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang added an astdint.h, which provides C99 typedefs for pre-C99 
compilers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 AJ added detection for DirectX 8 and 9 to the Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added detection for AMD64 to the UNIX port and test 
programme. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added a get_midi_length function and a midi_time variable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a problem where Allegro would ignore a user-specified 
configuration file if set_config_file() was called before allegro_init(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added a transpose_font function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added support for true colour fonts and a font example. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a problem in shutdown_dialog() reported by Tobi 
Vollebregt. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marcio Fialho fixed some issues with displaying author names in the demo 
game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman fixed a problem in the MSVC makefile when building Allegro 
with Cygwin. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder fixed (again) problems with creating directories in 
different setups in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added documentation for the custom packfile functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jeff Mitchell fixed the location of grabber.txt in the spec file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Harshavardhana Reddy added a Kannada greeting to exunicod. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig cleaned up the example programmes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made it possible to disable the hardware cursor in X by passing 
an option to the configure script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 AJ and Michal Molhanec added an MSVC 7 configure option and added an msvc7 
switch to fix.bat. Karthik Kumar did the same for the Intel compiler icl. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Mr_Bones fixed compilation of setup.c when --disable-ossdigi is used 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 AJ fixed a beep being generated in Windows when alt+character was pressed 
in Windowed mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed many oversights and problems in the library and examples and 
allowed the code to be build with stricter warnings. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed problems compiling the Windows port with WARNMODE=1 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Tore Halse fixed compilation problems in Windows related to TITLEBARINFO. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder made the Windows port use TITLEBARINFO if it is available. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made many improvements to the documentation. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.17 to 4.1.18 (January 2005)}Changes from 4.1.17 to 4.1.18 (January 2005)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed a bug that caused rest() to wait too long on MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Tore Halse made the Allegro window always appear centred in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a lot of warnings in the code and did a lot of cosmetic 
fixes as well. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added short description support to the MAN and 
HTML documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Milan Mimica fixed a bug in the keyconf utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull fixed some issues compiling Allegro for MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marcio Fialho fixed a warning when compiling Allegro with DJGPP. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a bug that prevented system cursors from working in 
Windows, as pointed out by Peter Johansson. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added a font loading routine and various other font 
functions to the library. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang added custom packfile functions and packfile vtables. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang decoupled the packfile compression code from the packfile 
routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder fixed some problems with the font loading code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 AJ added IA64, SSE3 and AMD64 detection code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder fixed some warnings with MinGW gcc 3.4.2 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Hull made the file selector work properly with directories that have 
more than 2048 entries. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marcio Afonso Arimura Fialho fixed some problems with the DJGPP version and 
the VBE/AF driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Phil Shenk clarified the MSVC build docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Molhanec fixed a problem with long filenames in the MSVC build 
process and added a --msvcpaths flag to the fix.bat script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made a lot of improvements to the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made some modifications to allegro_message() in X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added blender mode defines and activated the gfx_vtable 
set_blender_mode() function in the source. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added gui_set_screen and gui_get_screen functions and a 
set_mouse_cursor_bitmap function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made scancode_to_name never return NULL. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed some problems in the Linux joystick driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added a lot of ASSERTions to the code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added special Ctrl-Alt-End and Pause key handlers to the 
X11 keyboard driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a problem with the mouse acceleration in Windows. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.16 to 4.1.17 (December 2004)}Changes from 4.1.16 to 4.1.17 (December 2004)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed a few problems with the sprite rotation code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg optimized blitting between different colour depths. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added support for the use of native window manager cursors. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson made install_allegro() check if the library version matches 
the version of the header files installed. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed some problems with rest() on UNIX systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added an is_windowed_mode() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added the scancode_to_name function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made rest use usleep() on MacOSX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson fixed the incorrect use of -export-dynamic on UNIX 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig, Chris Robinson and Peter Wang fixed XOR mode leaving 
droppings in X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed several dependency issues. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 James Lohr fixed a problem with mouse acceleration in fullscreen modes under 
Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a problem in the TGA loader. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lennart Steinke contributed keyboard layout detection code for Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a bug that caused Allegro to crash if it failed to 
initialize. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a deadlock related to X vsync emulation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder fixed make uninstall with mingw make. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed QNX issue of not including utimer.c 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed compilation problems on BeOS and fixed the detection 
of VRAM. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed compilation problems on *BSD. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made the X11 window hidden in GFX_TEXT mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang removed remapping of numpad keys when NumLock was off in Linux 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 David A. Capello made override_config_file also be used for writing to the 
config file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Julien Cugniere added an X11 message box for allegro_message under X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vitaliy Chetverikov a small bug in the GUI where the return value of 
MSG_IDLE was ignored. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made several improvements to the examples. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made a lot of improvements to the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made make-install not build examples. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed several instances of symbols not declared static that should 
have been. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig replaced the X11 keyboard driver with a new XIM driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a problem with Linux headers and Allegro headers both 
declaring KEY_ constants, as pointed out by David A. Capello. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed X11 async reply in DGA2 mode detection due to missing 
XLOCK/XUNLOCK 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed problems in ex3buf, which was trying to lock symbols which 
had been removed. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig cleaned up grabber/dat documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder added ALLEGRO_LIB_BUILD flag for gcc variants not using 
configure. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed bugs in matrix_to_quat and get_align_matrix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a problem with the X11 port when 
ALLEGRO_MULTITHREADED was not defined. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton added support for a fourth mouse button to the Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Molhanec added a FAQ section about the giftware license. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added the license disclaimer to the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added missing vtable entries for AllegroGL, as requested by 
Robert Ohannessian. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Dustin Dettmer spotted a typo in save_bitmap. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sam Hocevar removed deprecated use of init_read_test, test_byte_read, etc. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a bug in the Windows keyboard driver. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.15 to 4.1.16 (October 2004)}Changes from 4.1.15 to 4.1.16 (October 2004)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed two problems with the keyboard driver on Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson fixed a problem causing some components to wrongly 
initialized in Windows when the window is set. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added chapters to the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson fixed a bug where the X11 fullscreen driver would fail if 
no virtual screen was reported. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder added a set_allegro_resource_path() function . 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed an issue with xf2pcx. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 David A. Capello made makedoc write sub-section headings for .txt output. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added hardware cursor support to the X11 and DirectX window 
drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made the Linux joystick driver read more than one joystick 
event at a time, as pointed out by Greg Lee. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek removed the need for magic main under UNIX and added a 
--enable-magicmain option to the configure script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a crash when initializing, deinitializing and 
reinitializing Allegro on Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a possible memory protection problem in stretch_blit 
on Windows XP SP2, as suggested by Chris Robinson. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson fixed set_palette() not waiting for vsync in X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang deprecated the retrace simulator. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Verkamp contributed a MIDI input driver for the Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson improved the speed of drawing primitives on X11 and 
implemented locking/unlocking for video bitmaps. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek fixed a problem with the build process on non-intel UNIX 
systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a problem with programs aborting on exit under X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang disabled VBE/AF by default on Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sam Hocevar fixed a bug where makedoc would crash for missing @erefs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made the mouse movement appear smoother. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson made the file routines work with files containing a # in the 
filename. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a bug in remove_int(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Bobby Ferris added SciTE .api file generation to makedoc. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sam Hocevar made is possible to put functions defined in assembler 
source files in a shared library in UNIX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek removed the weak declaration of allegro_icon and changed 
xfixicon.sh accordingly. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek made get_executable_name() use procfs on UNIX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made many improvements to the documentation and 
to the makedoc tool. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many fixes to source, examples and documentation. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.14 to 4.1.15 (July 2004)}Changes from 4.1.14 to 4.1.15 (July 2004)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson tweaked tests/play.c slightly. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig deprecated yield_timeslice in favour of rest(0) and adjusted 
yield_timeslice on BeOS, QNX and MacOS X to behave the same as on other 
platforms. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a problem with the asm colour converter. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed some gcc warnings. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added the ability to pass extra CFLAGS and LDFLAGS on the 
make command line. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made ex3buf work outside of DOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson made the alleg mixer default instead of the DirectX one in 
windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed a bug where vsync() was blocking on a mutex if called 
when the screen was already acquired in windowed mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek made triple buffering work in the demo if VRAM is a single 
surface. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jon Rafkind provided an m4 macro for Allegro. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou and Henrik Stokseth made some improvements to the build 
process. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added various fixes to the documentation and 
to the documentation generation system. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 V Karthik Kumar added a Tamil language greeting to exunicode. 
{\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400    \par \pard \li400 \pard \li400 \par Chris Robinson and Elias Pschernig reduced lag under X11 when X11 
locks are held for too long. 
\par \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h fixed a problem with dependency generation under 
bash. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added an icon to the X11 port and contributed the xfixicon 
script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed an endianess issue when loading/saving 24 bit 
images from datafiles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made datafile plugins return FALSE on error. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed the docs for pack_putc. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h made the grabber choose better default menu 
shortcuts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth enabled the asm color converters for the X11 port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth improved buffer security in various parts of the 
library. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek made strncpy use sizeof() for fixed length strings. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made KEY_PAUSE work properly in windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson improved the threaded UNIX timer code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed some problems with the ALSA driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made  Command-Q and Quit trigger the 
close_button_callback in OSX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grady Martin fixed a bug in the handling of %n in the printf style 
text functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson rewrote parts of Allegro's mixer. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson increased the default volume, which was set very quiet 
previously. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz clarified the behavior of install_mouse. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig improved the pause key behavior. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added MSG_WANTMOUSE to the GUI. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h sped up get_filename. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson implemented the digmid_set_pan function 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Robinson improved the performance of the DIGMID driver. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.13 to 4.1.14 (April 2004)}Changes from 4.1.13 to 4.1.14 (April 2004)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added a missing install dependency on Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a couple of problems in dat2c. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola polished the MacOS X package builder script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added a Jack sound driver to the Unix port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth added support for debugging with DMalloc under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed detection of the ALSA 1.0 MIDI driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed compilation with --enable-color8=no under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made it possible to link against the Allegro framework 
with the allegro-config script under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola changed the dynamic lib install name to major.minor to 
preserve binary compatibility under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed a bug in fixbundle with 32bpp icons and alpha channel 
under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou improved the cross-compilation support on Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou restored the compensation code for end-of-frame in the FLI 
player. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder fixed potentially unsafe constructs in the Windows code. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.12 to 4.1.13 (March 2004)}Changes from 4.1.12 to 4.1.13 (March 2004)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Minor changes and clarifications in the docs by Sven Sandberg, Andy Goth, 
Jon Rafkind, Nathan Smith and Daniel Schlyder. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig extensively modified the ALSA 0.9/1.0 sound driver to make 
it work more nicely. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Julien Cugniere and Eric Botcazou fixed the crash on exit with the aRts 
sound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Nathan Smith implemented the recursive handling of directories for the 
dat utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou renamed the new '-r' option of the dat utility into '-f'. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Omar Cornut improved the handling of KEY_COLON2 on Japanese keyboards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Omar Cornut fixed the Windows joystick driver to handle a weird peculiarity 
of the DirectInput API. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig corrected the value of the alpha-channel depth field in the 
header when saving TGA image files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed again the formula giving the stride value in the Linux 
framebuffer console. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou restored the pixel-correct version of line() and added 
fastline() after Doug Eleveld had reported the problem. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andy Goth and Eric Botcazou fixed the constructor support in dat2s on Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola revamped the MacOS X package creation process to make it 
work under 10.3 and create an enduser package that holds just the shared 
framework. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola changed the MacOS X shared library building process to have 
a prebound shared library separated from a small static libray holding just 
the magic main stuff. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola removed window shadow flickering when moving the program 
window around on MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig changed the behavior of yield_timeslice() to sleeping 
instead of just yielding. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made the MacOS X port reuse the screen on the first video 
bitmap creation and made the screen fade on mode switches faster. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made d_menu_proc() automatically yield when the dialog 
is driven by do_dialog(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added missing d_yield_proc()s to the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug which caused too many sliders to be reported 
in the presence of a POV device on Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Jones added support for the bitfield compressed BMP image format. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou removed all uses of GCC's cast-expression-as-lvalue 
extension in preparation for GCC 3.4. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Molhanec replaced all occurences of MingW32 by MinGW in the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Omar Cornut bumped the maximum number of buttons per joystick to 32. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou implemented automatic screensaver disabling (only on 
Windows for the time being). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added mode 1280x960 to the gfx mode selector. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed the video mode error display in the test program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the final animation of the demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made the X11 gfx driver ignore repeated key-events. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added set_hardware_volume(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Francisco Pires added an FPS counter and an option to disable vsync to 
the excamera example. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou and Sven Sandberg documented the limitations of getpixel() 
and added is_inside_bitmap(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added i386 sincos optimization to GCC-based ports. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 David Capello fixed a bug with FLI frames containing odd-sized chunks. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig and Sven Sandberg improved the GUI focus algorithm. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou modified the dat/grabber plugins interface to expose 
datafile properties to plugins. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a new clipping API and deprecated the old one. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz updated the MSVC build instructions. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.11 to 4.1.12 (Nov 2003)}Changes from 4.1.11 to 4.1.12 (Nov 2003)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many minor changes and clarifications in the docs, some of them based on 
suggestions by Neil Roy, Jon Rafkind, aj, Andrei Ellman and Michal 
Molhanec. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made little fixes all over the place in the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola removed MacOS X 10.1.x source compatibility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou disabled keyconf on platforms that don't need it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig shifted key name display so that all keys are visible 
in the keyconf utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stephan Brauss added new keysyms to the X11-to-BIOS conversion table in 
order to catch missing keycodes for the keypad when NumLock is on. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stephan Brauss corrected a few nits in the Swiss keyboard configuration 
file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou disabled the close button support when a user window is 
registered under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou changed the default switch mode to SWITCH_BACKGROUND for 
the Windows port to cure the problems on exit under WinXP. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg improved the previous fix to _parallelogram_map(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed an overflow in floodfill(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed the dither blit mode for the Mode-X driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added quality and reverberation settings support to the 
CoreAudio MIDI driver under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added high performance CoreAudio digi/midi drivers (default 
on autodetect) and made little fixes to the old QT Note Allocator and 
Carbon Sound Manager drivers under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 KronomanX added a FAQ entry about the conflict between Allegro headers and 
the C++ 'using' directive. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h let dialog_message() pass user messages to hidden 
objects. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Molhanec simplified the build instructions for Dev-C++. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes fixed a redrawing problem in the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added support for the joystick_device* config variables 
under Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added gfx_mode_select_filter(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang removed the old Linux async I/O stuff, which had been out of 
service for a long, long time. Also simplified the Linux standard drivers 
stuff. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Thomas Fjellstrom added (experimental) support for ALSA 0.9.x. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 John Utz corrected a wrong assumption about the VRAM layout in the Linux 
framebuffer console driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz tt-ized text quotes in the HTML version of the 
docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the Linux port compile on non-x86 platforms. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stephan Brauss made a few fixes to let the Linux port compile again on 
Linux 2.2.x systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Kalle Toivonen fixed a bug in _parallelogram_map(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou cleaned up the ALSA config variables under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 David Cullen added multiple bullets and extra lives to the demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sam Hocevar fixed a race condition in the mixer under Unix w/ threads, 
Windows, BeOS and MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman improved the Windows screensaver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jon Rafkind implemented the Cohen-Sutherland clipping algorithm for the 
line() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added an application menu with a Quit item acting like the 
three fingers salute, in order to better integrate Allegro apps with the 
Aqua UI guidelines under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jon Rafkind and Vincent Penquerc'h added more ASSERTs to the code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added an option to disable vsync when page-flipping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added the detection of spaces to the MSVCDir variable for 
the MSVC port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz integrated the build instructions in the HTML 
version of the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed some nits in fixbundle for alpha channel on 32-bit 
icons under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lisa Parratt improved the performances of the SGI audio driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz updated and improved the documentation in many 
places. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added HTML text substitution to the doc processor. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Tobi Vollebregt spotted a bug in ustrerror(), which was not returning a 
pointer to a static buffer. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added more documentation about return values 
of functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added a new section about documentation to 
ahack._tx. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz fixed rare buffer overflows in do_uconvert with 
very tiny buffer sizes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Serge Semashko fixed a bug with the letter P in the Russian keyboard 
configuration file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola let application bundles accept files dragged onto the 
application icon under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed save_bmp for better conformance (a couple of header 
fields were wrong, and dots-per-metre fields were being filled with zero). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Julien Cugniere fixed a bug related to the retrieval of the inital volume 
when no primary buffer was present under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth simplified the asm detection test, removed many GNUish 
preprocessor constructs in the asm files and, as a consequence, let the 
Watcom port use its own preprocessor on assembly files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang prevented non-mmapped memory from being munmapped under Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes prevented __al_linux_shutdown_vga_helpers from being called 
unless the corresponding init function was first called under Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg improved the misc/findtext.sh script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg added support to produce a PDF version of the manual under 
Unix and to compress the various formats with bzip2. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg made some correction to the Swedish translation file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou pluginized the new 'Change filename' menu option in the 
grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the X11 mouse scrolling bug. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h made it so that modifications to the type or color 
depth of an image are detected as such by the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth added a C++ test, Eric Botcazou integrated it in the build 
process. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made several fixes to let Allegro play nice with AllegroGL 
under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added proper embeddable framework support to the MacOS X 
port, modified fixbundle and updated the docs accordingly. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made external plugins scripts work under MacOS X. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.10 to 4.1.11 (Jun 2003)}Changes from 4.1.10 to 4.1.11 (Jun 2003)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou temporarily reverted the fix for the mouse bug when 
scrolling with the X11 driver under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the invocation of non-GNU make in the configure script, 
a few compilation warnings in tools/dat2c.c and made it possible to pass 
libraries to the misc/deplexe.sh script, so as to let Allegro build again 
under Solaris. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz removed all direct references to Canvaslink and 
credited SourceForge for current services. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou reworked the configure check for sched_yield() under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sam Hocevar fixed a Bashism in fix.sh that makes Solaris' sh choke. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made sure mouse buttons are initialized to 0 at startup 
under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a blurb about the new behaviour of d_ctext_proc(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou corrected several inadequacies in the documentation of 
makefile targets. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz did some housekeeping work in the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added a missing item to the list of installed files 
under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added a script to automate the enduser MacOS X package 
creation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made it possible to compile apps if just the Allegro 
framework is installed under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h corrected an inefficiency in select_palette() and 
unselect_palette(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the build failure with MSVC. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman added a few missing items to the list of uninstalled files 
for the MinGW and MSVC ports. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h fixed a bug in _fill_3d_edge_structure(). 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.9 to 4.1.10 (Jun 2003)}Changes from 4.1.9 to 4.1.10 (Jun 2003)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many minor changes and clarifications in the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hein Zelle reworked the paragraph on the location of shared libraries 
under Unix in the docs and added a FAQ entry on the same subject. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Martijn Van Lersel fixed an overflow in create_light_table(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Jones and Eric Botcazou made the MIDI player handle the 'All Sound Off' 
controller message. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made the MacOS X port play nice with 10.1.x. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the menus not block on exit when mouse buttons are 
still being held down. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz improved the description of set_gfx_mode about 
virtual screen sizes and hardware scrolling by suggestion of Lothar May. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Jones let the MIDI player pass controller events to the raw player 
by default. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added the platform-dependent AL_RAND() macro. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added a HID joystick driver to the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth spotted non-standard constructs in the Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth spotted unused variables throughout the library. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jim Grainger spotted a broken link in the docs and updated it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez fixed some problems in the DirectSound streaming. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman improved the exrgbhsv example. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman corrected a rounding issue in hsv_to_rgb(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added _al_rand() and replaced rand() with it throughout 
the library. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig moved the big font example from exgui to excustom and 
fixed d_edit_box string length. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added the 'fixbundle' utility to the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added the possibility to fold/unfold nested datafiles in 
the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed a couple of color conversion bugs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig replaced exgui with a more thorough version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added support for debugging with Fortify under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added the 'Replace' option to the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added the 'Force Update Selection' command to the 
grabber and refactored a fair amount of duplicated code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made exunicod endian-safe. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the behaviour of the C version of draw_trans_sprite() 
with 32-bit RGBA sprites. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed the behaviour of the C version of draw_trans_sprite() 
in 8bpp mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added system bitmaps support to the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou enabled full support of relative filenames in the dat/grabber 
utilities. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made exlights endian-safe. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Christer Sandberg fixed a bug in the 24-bit graphics code of fixup_datafile(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added hw-accelerated VRAM->VRAM blit support under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added an install-template makefile target to install an 
Allegro application Project Builder template under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added a digital sound driver to the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 John Holden fixed a bug in load_wav(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added a MIDI driver to the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added proper mouse buttons detection via HID Manager and 
buttons emulation if needed under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added canonicalize_filename() and deprecated fix_filename_path(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added the support for relative filenames to the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made it possible to pass CC on the command line to make 
on non-Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added support for bundled applications under MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez devised a simpler fix for the WinXP black screen bug. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez prevented some artifacts from being left on the screen 
when moving fast the window under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola contributed the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed various things in preparation for the MacOS X port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou uncoupled link options for libraries and programs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added the support for relative filenames by means of three 
new API functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made the allegro.devhelp work with devhelp 0.6.0. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made file_select_ex() honor the '(+)d' attribute character 
in the extension string. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou removed the remaining occurences of ustrcpy() from the 
library code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Christer Sandberg fixed a problem with the include guard generated 
by dat2c. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou removed the remaining calls to deprecated functions from 
the distribution. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou optimized the handling of the extension string in the 
file selector. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou implemented the AL_*_DEPRECATED macros and enabled them 
for GCC 3.1 or later. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg improved the performance of the rgb_to_hsv() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Christer Sandberg and Eric Botcazou made dat2c correctly detect the 
native line ending. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Christer Sandberg and Eric Botcazou made dat2c work better with ISO C90 
compilers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth updated the installation and configuration instructions 
of both MinGW and Dev-C++ and documented the support of MSYS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman improved the performance of the hsv_to_rgb() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made the makefile not pass the -s switch to ld on Unix for 
non-optimized builds. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added the 'New' command to the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the grabber save previous modified data when loading 
new data. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou unified and fixed the support for ALLEGRO_USE_C on all 
GCC-based ports. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou unified the autodetection and handling of Unix-like tools 
on non-Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman got Allegro for MSVC to build with Cygwin. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made the programs be linked with -pg in profile mode 
under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman updated the Cygwin section in docs/build/mingw32.txt. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Magnus Henoch fixed a problem when compiling without 8bpp support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 James Ponder and Hein Zelle clarified a requirement when cross-compiling 
from Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 James Ponder suggested to remove the DJGPP makefile from the Unix tar 
archive. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz improved the docs on allegro_exit(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz documented the bunch of packfile functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the profile build on BeOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou updated the FAQ about DJGPP's va_list problem (thanks 
to aj for spotting this). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andrei Ellman suggested some additions to the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added a chapter on available examples to the 
docs, the ability to cross-reference them and display the references 
with a specific layout in the HTML docs, and a Python script to automate 
the updating process when new examples are added. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed an asm locking bug under Windows spotted by 
Omar Cornut. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 EvilTypeGuy cleaned up and fixed the RPM spec file for RedHat 9. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ville Skytt fixed a problem with make install libdir= and modules on 
Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang added a hack to not unload the SVGAlib module if SVGAlib 
installs an atexit() handler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig updated xf2pcx and integrated it in the build process 
under Unix/X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added support for dumping the configure settings 
under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez added get_color_depth() to the API. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Julien Cugniere and Eric Botcazou improved the support for non-blocking 
menus. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz corrected several nits in the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz documented the END_OF_MAIN macro. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez added get_color_conversion() to the API. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lennart Steinke added the exconfig example. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added big-endian support to the BMP, PCX and TGA loaders 
as well as to the X11 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the 'uninstall' target and a problem with 
Mingw32's make for the Watcom port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Charles Bilyue suggested to not force yielding timeslice with non-blocking 
menus. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes fixed a bug with asynchronous I/O mode restoring under Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes made the screen be cleared before setting the default 
palette when calling set_gfx_mode(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes fixed a bug with patterned drawing in the C version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h spotted an off-by-one problem when building the list 
of color depths in the gfx mode selector. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made the Intellimouse PS/2 driver work for USB mice in Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig integrated xkeymap in the build process under Unix/X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Oscar Giner fixed a conflict between the magic main and the MFC. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton fixed a bug with pack_fgets(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed broken and missing dependencies for make -j2 builds. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hein Zelle revamped the cross-compilation section of docs/build/mingw32.txt. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marcel Smit and Eric Botcazou made the show_video_bitmap() method of the 
Windows windowed driver wait for a vsync. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the test program really time the fixed math functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou clarified the limitations of Allegro's interrupts regarding 
the FPU state under DOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a bug in stretch_blit() where the first column or row can 
get an extra pixel, reported by David Gowers and AJ. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the linux mouse detection code really empty the buffer 
before proceeding in the setup program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the Watcom port compile in warnmode with Open Watcom. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed the build with the Unix->MinGW cross-compiler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Magnus Henoch made the gfx mode selector keep the current selection as 
much as possible. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the mouse not being scared over alert boxes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added -Wstrict-prototypes to the build warnmode under DOS, 
Windows and BeOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes updated the mouse autodetection code under Linux to take 
into account her EVDEV driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Philipp Thomas added multi-arch support, DESTDIR support and the German 
translation to the RPM spec file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Philipp Thomas converted the configure machinery to autoconf 2.53 or later. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Philipp Thomas fixed all function prototypes, thus allowing to build with 
-Wstrict-prototypes on Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Philipp Thomas fixed the compilation on x86-64. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Philipp Thomas fixed all comparisons between signed and unsigned types, 
thus allowing to build with -W -Wno-unused on Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou reworked the truecolor subsection of the 'Transparency and 
patterned drawing' section. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou clarified the return value on failure of file_time(), 
following AJ's suggestion. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the build in strictwarn mode on Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a mouse bug when the screen is scrolled with the X11 
fullscreen driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug with resolution and color depth not being taken 
into account by gfx_mode_select_ex(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h fixed the compilation breakage on Linux kernels 2.2.x. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou defined ALLEGRO_LIB_BUILD for debug and profile releases as 
well on Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou forced the exstream example to abort if no real sound driver 
is found. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou clarified the limitations of the stretching functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Acho A. Tang added a Sidewinder Precision Pro joystick driver to the 
DOS port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou re-enabled the autodetection of joysticks in the setup 
program. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.8 to 4.1.9 (Jan 2003)}Changes from 4.1.8 to 4.1.9 (Jan 2003)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many minor changes and clarifications in the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes fixed some device name strings in the setup program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes added a mouse driver based on the event interface (EVDEV) 
to the Linux port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added for_each_file_ex() and deprecated for_each_file(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou disabled hackish centering code in fullscreen mode 
under X11 which caused some artifacts to appear on KDE desktops. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a pasto in the sample reading code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug with Alt+TAB under X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a configure check for the include prefix problem 
with gcc 3.1 or later on Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou reverted the latest patch applied to the joystick code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matt Witherspoon and Eric Botcazou fixed a bug in the scroll() method of 
the Linux SVGAlib driver so as to make it wait for the vertical retrace. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a stop/resume option to the exstream.c example. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ben Davis documented the non-standard behaviour of pack_feof(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou worked around a weird problem with some X11 window managers 
that prevented the fullscreen driver from setting up. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou disabled the new timer synchronization code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added a warning about DJGPP stability under some 
Windows versions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made it so that the window is centered at startup under 
Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Jones and Eric Botcazou worked around a problem with DOS file 
attributes under Win2k. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the filetest work better with the keyboard. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed shifted help sections in the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the mishandling of TAB characters in menu bar entries. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a new DEBUGMODE level so that debuggers will not be 
flooded by internal debug messages any more under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a weird compilation bug under MacOS X. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.7 to 4.1.8 (Dec 2002)}Changes from 4.1.7 to 4.1.8 (Dec 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug with nested datafiles in the dat/grabber code 
spotted by Thomas Klausner. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou clarified the wording about ABI/API compatibility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Thomas Klausner added NetBSD detection. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ben Davis constified the parameter of set_window_title. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lisa Parratt added IRIX detection. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert J. Ohannessian clarified the docs for play_audio_stream. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed the makedoc linking problem with Watcom spotted by 
Glenn Jarvis. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ben Davis fixed a compilation warning for set_window_close_button. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a buffer overflow in the Windows debug version 
spotted by aj. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.6 to 4.1.7 (Dec 2002)}Changes from 4.1.6 to 4.1.7 (Dec 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the joystick initialization routine correctly handle 
zero as the joytype. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the compile-time check for the MMX asm support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the non-MMX asm color copy routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou implemented the synchronization routines for the BeOS port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou turned the set_window_close_* macros into inline functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed an oversight that caused the SGI AL audio driver not 
to be built as a module on Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stepan Roh fixed a glitch with autoconf 2.53 on Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the compilation bug with MinGW. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.5 to 4.1.6 (Nov 2002)}Changes from 4.1.5 to 4.1.6 (Nov 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added informations on the FLI format provided 
by Kronoman X to the FAQ. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou revived the two former set_window_close_* functions as 
deprecated functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig contributed an improved xkeymap utility, based on the 
original code by Michael Bukin. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added synchronization to the timer code on multi-threaded 
platforms (except BeOS for the time being). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the new 'save' method of plugins use the same return 
value convention as the 'export' method (see tools/plugins/plugins.txt). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added the support for plugin scripts to the MinGW port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang changed the default sound mixing quality to 2 (highest). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton added the detection of left-hand mouse configuration 
under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Oscar Giner fixed a bug with binary data exporting in the grabber, 
introduced in the 4.1.4 release. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a crash when Alt+Tabbing under WinXP. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou reverted his patch changing the behaviour at startup 
under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added infrastructure for properly documenting 
the return value of the API calls. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.4 to 4.1.5 (Nov 2002)}Changes from 4.1.4 to 4.1.5 (Nov 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz updated the docs about mailing lists/contacts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added instructions on how to create and submit 
patches to the Allegro developers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou implemented the support for non-blocking menus. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lisa Parratt spotted a BSDism that IRIX doesn't like at all. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlyder fixed a problem with set_window_title() under BeOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lisa Parratt contributed the SGI Audio Library sound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou completely revamped the close button support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou simplified fullscreen mode initialization under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig and Eric Botcazou made the GUI code scare the mouse, when 
drawing, only if it is necessary to do so, thus reducing cursor flicker. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug in scare_mouse_area(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig optimized the load_bitmap() function family when no 
palette is specified and documented the feature. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz aliased the stylesheet to the default CSS style, 
allowing The Big Lizard(tm) and other web browsers to disable CSS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed an ill-behaviour at startup under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added the Euro character to the default font and to the 
German and French keyboard configuration files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made _ustrdup() set *allegro_errno to ENOMEM on failures. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Annie Testes lifted several hardcoded length limitations in the 
configuration routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou prevented set_gfx_mode() from resetting the layout of all 
color depths. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou moved #include directives out of the range of extern "C" 
directives (fixing the C++ compilation bug with Borland C++). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added the ALLEGRO_NO_COMPATIBILITY symbol and moved 
all the deprecated stuff from allegro._tx to api._tx . 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz reformatted monospaced text blocks to fit page 
in Postscript output. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Oscar Giner added the Catalan translation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Oscar Giner corrected the Spanish translation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added a new command to the doc processor for 
email mangling: me@serv.com -> me at serv dot com. It is applied to all 
documentation output formats. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made all source files use the external CSS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Jones fixed a bug with 16-bit samples loading introduced in the 
previous release. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.3 to 4.1.4 (Oct 2002)}Changes from 4.1.3 to 4.1.4 (Oct 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou prevented the linker from choking on Solaris because of a 
static library with no symbols. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou removed joystick control from main part of the setup program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou documented the workaround needed for C++ programs compiled 
with Borland C++ (in docs/build/bcc32.txt). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou unified the magic main for the 3 Windows compilers and fixed 
the WinMain() linkage for Borland C++. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Schmidt made gcc pass '-h' instead of '-soname' to the linker and 
replaced '-L' by '-h' in shell comparisons so as not to break on Solaris. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the bogus check for GNU ar on Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made load_datafile_object() load the properties attached 
to the object. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez and Eric Botcazou fixed the infamous blank screen problem 
under Win2k/WinXP. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou cleaned up the use of errno/allegro_errno throughout the 
library and removed all occurences of errno in the grabber/plugins code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz embedded readme.txt into the Allegro manual. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the Windows port set the NULL mouse cursor in 
fullscreen mode instead of hiding it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h ASSERTed a bunch of C drawing routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert J. Ohannessian did some cosmetic improvements to the HTML output 
and separated the CSS file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added configure options for x86 processor optimizations 
on Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Benny Colyn added a Dutch translation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added the detection of SunOS/Solaris. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez fixed a graphics bug with always-on-top applications. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Igor Gnip added the detection of MSYS via the SHELL variable to the 
MingW32 port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the mouse use the exclusive foreground cooperative 
level in fullscreen mode under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug than had prevented ALT+F4 from being properly 
handled under Windows and cleaned up the low-level scancode handler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou updated the description of the layout of header files in 
the aHack file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz corrected the docs about 'ulimit' in the Help 
file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Laurence Withers converted the core library and the whole distribution 
to use the new text API. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Laurence Withers added a new text API and deprecated the old one. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the Windows port stop triggering SWITCH_IN events 
when restoring the DirectDraw surfaces. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou re-enabled screensavers and powerdowns under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the deprecated file_select() an inline function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou cleaned up set_gfx_mode() and made it so that GFX_SAFE 
selects a windowed mode in windowed environments. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added a container header file graphics.h for all the 
graphics stuff. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added an indexing option to the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added an option menu to the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek and Eric Botcazou cleaned up the grabber/plugins code; 
in particular, the 'save' method of plugins got a new prototype. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made fix.sh and zipup.sh not destroy timestamps when just 
changing EOL markers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a misuse of the -I option with gcc 3.0 and later. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert J. Ohannessian added more caveats to docs/build/mingw32.txt. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.2 to 4.1.3 (Sep 2002)}Changes from 4.1.2 to 4.1.3 (Sep 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz fixed a bug in the HTML rendering code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou modified the querying of DirectSound devices under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Evert Glebbeek added a '-fullscreen' switch to the grabber, Laurence 
Withers a '-windowed' switch. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou temporarily disabled screensavers and power downs under 
Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Daniel Schlydler fixed problems with get_executable_name() under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a FAQ entry on the C++ headers problem with gcc 3.x 
and Mingw32, summarizing findings by Robert J. Ohannessian. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert J. Ohannessian fixed the compilation problem with MSVC. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.1 to 4.1.2 (Sep 2002)}Changes from 4.1.1 to 4.1.2 (Sep 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many minor changes in the code and the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz fixed a crash in the exmouse example when no 
mouse is present. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made the exunicod example welcome Italian programmers too. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz documented new structures. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a native DirectX window test. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou re-enabled the 1 ms accuracy limitation for timers under 
Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added support for the Devhelp documentation format. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marcel Smit corrected an error in the packfile format write-up. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a conflict between Allegro headers and standard C++ 
headers of gcc 3.x under Mingw32. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton made the DOS/Windows makefiles use 'copy /B' instead 
of 'copy' for file concatenation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou wrote another new page flipping/triple buffering code for 
the Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made it so that win_set_window() restores the state of the 
joystick module as well. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz ASSERTed a bunch of public functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made it so that restoring the DirectDraw surfaces always 
triggers a SWITCH_IN event under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a problem linking with the debug version under linux, 
due to missing "inline" functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert J. Ohannessian fixed the docs for pivot_scaled_sprite_v_flip(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a race condition when registering input events at 
startup under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Roberto Alfonso added an srand() call in the demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig removed (seemingly) arbitrary window size checks in the 
Unix X11 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Roberto Alfonso fixed a couple of memory problems in the dat2c utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton pointed out a C99 idiom in the dat2c utility that 
Borland C++ doesn't like. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola changed the BeOS gfx driver IDs/constants to more 
pertinent ones. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added a safe BWindow-based windowed driver and a 
fullscreen overlay driver to the BeOS port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola reorganized and commented all the BeOS gfx subsystem. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed a bug in create_trans_table(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzaled fixed a bug with volume and pan not properly set in 
loop mode by the DirectSound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Laurence Withers added two fixed point ratios for converting to and 
from radians. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the documented prototype of fixtof() and ftofix(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Laurence Withers fixed the 'inline' compilation bug in the dat2c utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug that causes timers to restart permanently when 
Allegro is switched out under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug with switch mode setting under Windows he had 
introduced in the 4.1.1 release. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz improved the legibility of the HTML code 
generated by the doc processor and reduced its size in the process. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.1.0 to 4.1.1 (Aug 2002)}Changes from 4.1.0 to 4.1.1 (Aug 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many minor changes and clarifications in the docs and the FAQ. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug with graphics mode switching using a 
ALT+key combination under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Laurence Withers contributed the dat2c utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made it so that chapters can be referenced 
in the documentation and added a new one on the types and 
structures defined by the library. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou improved win_set_window() so that it can be called 
after the library has been initialized. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed a bug in midi_seek(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou wrote a new page flipping/triple buffering code for the 
Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added a linux specific debug help section. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the constructors of the fix class from integer and 
floating point values explicit. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a dat2s bug with dynamically linked programs 
under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jan Bruun Andersen fixed a compilation problem with Cygwin. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jeremiah Blanchard updated the build instructions for Darwin. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added sample loader/saver registration and a 
save_sample() function. Peter Wang documented it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 George Foot added (preliminary) non-FM support to the OSS MIDI driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ben Davis and Robert J. Ohannessian put in (void *) casts for the 
LOCK_* macros on DJGPP and Mac. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Nicholas Davies made the fix class not trigger warnings with gcc -Weffc++. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed a keyboard focus problem under BeOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed the detection of ESD and aRts on Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made files be opened with as permissive as possible 
permissions on Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stepan Roh added support for a automake-style DESTDIR variable in the 
Unix makefile. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made the doc processor output valid HMTL 4.0 in 
some corner cases for which it previously didn't. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz fixed a crash of the doc processor with very 
long lines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang did some housekeeping work throughout the code and the 
documentation. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.0.2 to 4.1.0 (Jul 2002)}Changes from 4.0.2 to 4.1.0 (Jul 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Charles Bilyue optimized the i386 blitters. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed the mis-treatment of empty files by the library and 
the 'pack' utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou simplified pack_f\{read,write\} and cleaned up several 
uses of pack_feof(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou split USE_CONSOLE into ALLEGRO_USE_CONSOLE and 
ALLEGRO_NO_MAGIC_MAIN. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou simplified and cleaned up the asm bank switchers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang added support for the environment variable ALLEGRO_MODULES 
under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made 'configure --disable-vga' remove more stuff out of the 
core under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou made the DirectDraw code try to restore its surfaces as 
soon as it detects they have been lost. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang added a description of the packfile format. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang added an aRts sound driver to the Unix port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg optimized create_video_bitmap() for systems with a single 
video memory surface. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz reindented the documentation sources, improving 
the text/info/html output in the process. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz improved chm output for the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg optimized and reduced numeric errors in create_trans_table(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lorenzo Petrone added a xwin_set_window_name() function to the X11 port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made install_allegro()/allegro_init() not abort the program 
on failure. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg and Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added backward compatibility 
to the new doc processor. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed various problem in the makefiles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made it so that the COLORCONV_KEEP_TRANS flag is checked 
when converting bitmaps out of datafiles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added preliminary support for hardware acceleration and 
video bitmaps to the QNX port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added a window position saving feature to the Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added a -s-PROP option to the dat utility in order 
to preserve properties when stripping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth made the zipwin.sh script for packaging the Windows 
binary distribution work with Cygwin. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang and Eric Botcazou made it so that Allegro C programs can 
compile with gcc -ansi -pedantic. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added a 'sort' option to the grabber and the dat 
utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added preliminary support for native windows under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h made gcc use pipes on Unix when building the library. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lorenzo Petrone added support for switch callbacks under X11 and 
refactored the display switching code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez changed the default value of emulate_three to no in all 
cases. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou modified the behaviour of the retrace_* objects to take 
into account the refresh rate if known. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the 'configure --disable-constructor' problem. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig fixed menu dimensions in the GUI engine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added documentation on API compatibility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig and Eric Botcazou fixed the get_camera_matrix*() functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Igor Gnip removed the requirements for fileutils on DOS/Windows platforms. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jeremiah Blanchard contributed modifications in order for Allegro to 
compile on Darwin/MacOS X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth merged standard and extended mode-selectors. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig added chm ouput support for the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou merged the three input threads into a single one under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Mike Pichagin contributed the ustrnicmp() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz contributed a new documentation format for better 
html output. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a DirectInput joystick driver to the Windows port. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.0.1 to 4.0.2 (Jun 2002)}Changes from 4.0.1 to 4.0.2 (Jun 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many clarifications in the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg improved accuracy and fixed bugs in do_arc(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton added missing header files to be installed by the 
Windows binary distribution. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz fixed a problem with the TOC of the FAQ. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug with stretch_blit() under Windows XP. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed various configure machinery problems under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg updated the Swedish translation file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed a crash in the exswitch example when compiled 
by Watcom C/C++ and also made if faster. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Maxime Carey added a Canada (French) keyboard mapping file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth updated instructions and fixed installation for Cygwin. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added an option to disable direct updating in color 
conversion mode under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou (presumably) fixed the bug in the emergency exit mechanism 
under Windows when called from the DLL. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola made it so that the sound doesn't block the main thread 
anymore under BeOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Deepak T and Eric Botcazou fixed clipping in three C sprite drawing 
routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a deadlock that occurred under Unix when Allegro 
received an X11 close event. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a --cppflags option to allegro-config and fixed 
C++ compilation under QNX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h added a --version= option to allegro-config. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert J. Ohannessian made the 32->24 color convertors more robust and 
improved the MMX one in the process. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert J. Ohannessian, Eric Botcazou and Sven Sandberg fixed a bug in 
the hue blender and the hsv_to_rgb() routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton fixed another problem with al_find*() and NTFS 
partitions under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a bug in ALSA device detection. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a bug in al_find* under Unix when running as root. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Leverton and Eric Botcazou fixed a bug with mouse mickeys in 
windowed mode under Windows. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 4.0.0 to 4.0.1 (Mar 2002)}Changes from 4.0.0 to 4.0.1 (Mar 2002)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many minor changes, many clarifications in the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed the installation of shared libs under FreeBSD. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang and Eric Botcazou fixed autodetection glitches for VGA and 
SVGAlib. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a problem under X11 when the MIT X-SHM extension is 
used. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a deadlock on exit when an user window is used in 
conjunction with timers under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou disabled useless backbuffers for the DirectX safe driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made the Alsa sound driver use non-blocking mode when 
detecting if ALSA PCM available. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg added support for long long integers to usprintf() and al. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Robert J. Ohannessian fixed the difference blender. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a race condition when closing the X display. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made all active dialogs redraw themselves after a switch. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made fbcon a priority driver, so that it can appear above VGA. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez fixed a glitch in the DirectSound input code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the SIGSEGV on exit with the three-finger salute 
under QNX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the C-to-asm calling problem for Borland C++ compiled 
programs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou cleaned up the messy (and somewhat incorrect) DirectDraw 
bitmap management code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg improved the video bitmap subdivision algorithm. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed problems in the Windows makefiles (especially 
Borland) when building Allegro under Win98. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang removed the hack which switched off fix aliases under IRIX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vincent Penquerc'h fixed a problem with the SIGALRM timer and 
SWITCH_PAUSE. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez fixed a latency problem with audiostreams. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Laurence Withers made the font exporter use the current palette for the 
output. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Elias Pschernig made some changes to grabber: added a close hook; keeps 
track if anything has been modified; when you exit the grabber and the 
file was modified, the popup now has a 3rd option for save+exit; window 
title displays the current filename, and if the file has been modified; 
fixed multicolour font exports. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg optimized again the create_light_table() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Attila Szilagyi fixed SVGAlib horizontal scrolling. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed synchronization problems under QNX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made the TOC at the top of sections 
alphabetically sorted. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the screen not restored after a wake-up in the 
Windows windowed and overlay drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Richard Reeve fixed a silly mistake with gcc 3.0.x detection. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola fixed static keyconf compilation problem on BeOS due to 
pckeys keyboard driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the not-returning-focus-on-exit bug under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michael Bukin fixed a bug with C-version textprintf on 24-bpp bitmaps, 
reported by Bertrand Coconnier. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug in the 32->15 MMX color conversion routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed the DLL linking problem with Borland C++ Builder 4. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg made exaccel more responsive. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed a glitch with short filenames under DOS. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 3.9.40 to 4.0.0 (Dec 2001)}Changes from 3.9.40 to 4.0.0 (Dec 2001)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Many minor changes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou modularised the VGA/Mode-X drivers under Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed the segfault bug in Mode-X under Linux with threads. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made the X11 port use SIGTERM signal instead of exit() when 
invoking the three finger salute. This solves a problem where programs 
with sound hang when they are killed. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added os_version and os_revision support to the QNX port and 
added a QNX specific section to the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang added a deadzone for digital readings of joystick axes under 
Linux, as suggested by George Foot and made the driver look for 
/dev/input/js# before /dev/js#. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang renamed fixed point functions to be prefixed with "fix" instead 
of "f", to avoid clashes with some libcs. Backwards compatibility is 
provided using static inline functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed two problems with emergency exits under Linux/Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou changed the updating logic of the QNX Photon graphics 
driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added a doc for the wfixicon utility, with the help of 
Laurence Withers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola unicodified allegro_message on BeOS and wrote a new BeOS 
keyboard driver (using the shared pckeys system). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a problem with David Capello's d_menu_proc 
steal/return mouse focus patch. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made passing NULL to install_allegro() as the atexit_ptr 
parameter mean allegro_exit() won't be installed as an atexit() 
callback, as suggested by Javier Gonzalez. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lorenzo Petrone added a gfxinfo utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou added fetch_mode_list() to the QNX Photon Direct driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang made X desktop_color_depth() able to return 15 bpp. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz updated Spanish translation strings. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang fixed a problem with X shutdown sequence. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou repaired the QNX build process, revamped the layout of the 
QNX port sources and made some fixes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Wang disabled the SVGAlib mode fetching code as it was causing 
problems with other drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Angelo Mottola added BeOS notes to the ABI compatibility doc. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug in the Windows locking code that caused the 
grabber to crash on switch out. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug in the handling of recursive sub-bitmaps under 
Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Eric Botcazou fixed a bug preventing old style password-protected 
packfiles from loading in the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lorenzo Petrone added two FAQ entries on DGA2 problems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz revamped the structure of the docs directory. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stepan Roh updated the Czech translation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Javier Gonzalez fixed a bug in the DirectSound driver related to the loop 
playing modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 David Capello fixed a problem with submenus which overlapped their 
parents, where focus would pop back to the parent instead of the child. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 3.11 to 3.9.40 (Nov 2001)}Changes from 3.11 to 3.9.40 (Nov 2001)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou enabled SSE support under Linux. Also reduced the 
delay in the DOS Sidewinder init code. Made the definition of _AL_DLL 
for MinGW32 consistent with other Windows ports. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Henrik Stokseth improved make install to install only the needed 
headers from the include/allegro/platform directory. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Vincent Penquerc'h updated 7 makefiles after his header splitting 
patch. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Robert J. Ohannessian added two new entries to the GFX_VTABLE 
structure. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou replaced sprintf() by snprintf() in the Linux/Unix 
code. Increased the delay in the Windows switch handling code. 
Unicodified the GFX mode selector and fixed some glitches. Added a new 
test dubbed filetest. Fixed more unicode string problems. Unified the 
handling of system directory variables in the Windows makefiles. Made 
two strings translatable in the GFX mode selector. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Ben Davis added support for timers with parameters under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou fixed the bug in the asm sprite functions when 
used with sub-bitmaps. Fixed a problem of the new header layout for 
platforms not supporting asm. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: George Foot and Eric Botcazou fixed the C fceil() function and 
added the ffloor() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Chris Graham suggested to add a new flag for Windows NTFS 
compressed files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Henrik Schmidt and Eric Botcazou found a workaround for the 
switching problem under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou revamped the Borland C++ build process. Now it 
targets BC++ 5.5. Made pack_fdopen() an exported internal function. 
Reverted to the 3.9.38 code for 16-bit audio streaming with DirectSound. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Vincent Penquerc'h contributed a rather large split-up/ 
reorganization of the Allegro header files. Henrik and Eric did some 
related clean-up and fixing. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Peter Wang updated put_backslash() docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou modified the way DirectDraw surfaces are 
enumerated. Fixed compilation errors/warnings with BC++. Made 
generate_optimized_palette_ex() a static function. Worked around the 
DOS limitations for al_findfirst() and for_each_file(). Moved 
platform-dependent stuff out of src/fsel.c. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Peter Wang updated timer docs for non-DOS. Added ABI 
compatibility readme. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Javier Gonzalez removed all references to the RSXNT build. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Vincent Penquerc'h made it so that users can provide their own 
ustrdup(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Robin Burrows fixed two glitches in the DirectDraw code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Peter Wang fixed a problem where XUnlockDisplay was called after 
XCloseDisplay. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou removed old Sidewinder asm driver. Cleaned up 
buffer usage in DIGMID. Fixed unicode support in the DIGMID driver. 
Replaced all occurrences of SEND_MESSAGE() by object_message(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Annie Testes caught a misordering in the X system shutdown. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou increased the size of filename buffers to 1024 
bytes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Sven Sandberg improved fix.bat script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: David Capello fixed a problem with lost GUI mouse clicks. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Vincent Penquerc'h removed two hard-coded list sizes in grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Peter Wang added a little clarification regarding 
mouse_accel_factor. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou made debugging functions revert to ASCII strings. 
Added some defines for backwards compatibility with former cpu_* flags. 
Fixed a compilation problem under DJGPP. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Henrik Stokseth added VBE/AF fetch_mode_list(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Robert J. Ohannessian revamped the retrieval mechanism of CPU 
capabilities and added some new flags. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou fixed various mouse cursor problems under Windows. 
Updated docs about the DIGI_DIRECTX drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Javier Gonzalez fixed audio streams in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Peter Wang improved the XDGA2 driver by removing unneccessary 
scrolling, which also resulted in speed-ups due to less 
locking/unlocking. The original fix was by Michael Bukin. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou and Javier Gonzalez added some documentation on 
static linking with MSVC/MinGW32. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Peter Wang fixed sonames for debug and profile libs. Also added 
a 'configure' check that ld supports -export-modules before enabling 
modules. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Annie Testes found ASCII strings that needed to be converted. 
Also added a pack_fdopen() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Robert J. Ohannessian clarified some Dev-C++ instructions. 
Fixed fix.bat script under MinGW32/Win2k. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Marcel Smit corrected a bug that caused errors when drawing 
perspective-correct polygons facing the screen. (dz=0) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Peter Wang made install_timer_int static. Also moved 
allegro_404_char into public API. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Laurence Withers added docs for allegro_404_char. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou fixed a little glitch with menu auto-opening. Also 
fixed a color glitch in the Windows windowed driver on 8-bit desktops. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Salvador Eduardos Tropea fixed inline friend declarations with 
bodies. (gcc 3.0.x problem) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Peter Wang improved behaviour between mouse auto-opening menus 
and navigating with keyboard. Also unspartanised the ustrtok_r() docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Henrik Stokseth replaced the mmxtest with a more advanced 
assembler capabilities testing. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou re-enabled full pairing on Pentium for five color 
conversion routines. Applied xor vs. mov instruction-length optimization 
to the  non-MMX code. Applied %ecx vs. %edx instruction-length 
optimization to the non-MMX code. Updated the mouse_accel_factor docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Peter Wang eliminated use of static buffers by uconvert() in 
several places. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: David A. Capello made d_menu_proc steal/return focus when 
activated/deactivated. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Henrik Stokseth added Out of Environment space detection on the 
fix.bat script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Eric Botcazou fixed a non ANSI C compliant behaviour in 
usprintf(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.40: Seunghwan Ji made makedoc output correct html and rtf files for 
Korean. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Robert J. Ohannessian added -? and --help options to dat. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Sven Sandberg and Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz fixed some errors in 
the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Annie Testes fixed several glitches related to unicode support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Henrik Stokseth added an internal _al_sane_realloc() function 
with guaranteed behaviour. Used this to fix a memory leak and updated 
the FAQ. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou and Peter Wang updated the documentation on: 
file attribute flags, request_scroll and request_video_bitmap. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou unified the use of internal timers in Windows 
drivers. Also let digitest use max volume of Allegro mixer. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Paul Hampson improved again the DOS SNESpad joystick driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou revamped the locking mechanism of the DGA2 driver. 
Also fixed some memory leaks. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang added mode fetching for X11 fullscreen and DGA 
fullscreen drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Robert J. Ohannessian fixed 16bit masked blit SSE code and 
removed unused instruction in the other blitters. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Salvador Eduardos Tropea added some GCC 3.x fixes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang added a check if a module listed in modules.lst exist 
before trying to load it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Charles Wardlaw made alert/alert3 use transparent background for 
text label. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou added a flush_config_file() API function. Also added 
a hfill() method to the GFX_VTABLE structure. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang fixed some memory leaks. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou fixed two compilation warnings with gcc > 2.95. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Johan Peitz contributed 'Alex the Allegator' icon. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Angelo Mottola fixed safe fullscreen bug and fetch_mode_list() 
for BeOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang updated XDGA2 and SVGAlib driver's fetch_mode_list() 
function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Henrik Stokseth rewrote the mode-list API, updated the code and 
updated the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz updated all URLs in the Allegro sources 
and documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou fixed cmplog script for perl 5.6.1. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang added a FAQ entry. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang fixed up the sound subsystem which he accidentally 
broke when he introduced the dynamic modules. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou fixed a compilation warning. Also added support 
for 8-bit desktops to the windows windowed driver. Fixed color shifts in 
the color convertors from 8-bit. Fixed a bug in the 8->8 color conversion 
routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Javier Gonzalez contributed bidirectional looping support for the 
directsound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Robert J. Ohannessian and Henrik Stokseth did a large update on 
the installation instructions for Mingw32. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou cleaned up windows dll version info sheet and let 
the windows makefiles use implicit rules on some file targets. Fixed a 
compilation glitch with MSVC. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Henrik Stokseth added support for building RPMs with SuSE Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang fixed some off-by-one errors. Fixed unix makefile. 
Fixed disabling of dynamic modules. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou and Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz finished translation 
of the allegro.spec file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou re-added a faq entry on DirectX version problem. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Grzegorz made fbcon a module. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang removed allegro-enduser.spec as it is no longer needed. 
Also contributed a rewrite of the allegro.spec file, and updated the 
scripts to make the rpm. The new allegro.spec file was based on one 
contributed by Osvaldo Santana Neto. Peter also allowed configure to give 
linker flags to allegro-config (for modules). Also let _unix_find_resource 
search in /usr/[local/]share/allegro for .dat files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Javier Gonzalez contributed backward playing support for the 
directsound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou fixed a glitch with backward playing in the digitest 
test. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Salvador Eduardos Tropea made a small update on the cygwin section 
of readme.mgw. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang fixed a problem with BSD make and Mac directory 
separators ':'. Documented gfx_cardw variable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Sven Sandberg fixed a nasty side-effect of clear() inlining on 
Watcom. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Laurence Withers fixed a crash bug in the mode-selector. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Peter Wang removed SIGIO asynch stuff since it's not needed when 
we have pthreads. Updated documentation to mention dynamic modules. 
Added configure option to disable threads. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Burton Radons fixed a bug in his dissolve blender. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou fixed a bug in the menus caused by auto-opening. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Henrik Stokseth updated the makefiles to use -mcpu=pentium instead 
of the depreciated -mpentium gcc option. Also let the packaging scripts 
run autoconf and remove hidden or leftover files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou cleaned up the windows sound code. Also clarified 
the code in the core menu function. Corrected a unicode glitch. 
Removed remaining references to ALLEGRO_NO_FINDFIRST. Added a unified 
al_find*() interface. Made the Portuguese translation file of the former 
Portuguese (Br) file. Fixed a few keyboard configuration files. Changed 
pl.cfg EOLN delimiter to \\r\\n. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Grzegorz Godlewski contributed a Polish localization patch. 
Also added support for lower and upper altgr tables. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.39: Eric Botcazou fixed a bug in the keyconf utility caused by the 
sectionification. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Robert J. Ohannessian added the following to the color convertor: 
color copy routines needed by the BeOS port, support for cross-conversion 
between 15-bit and 16-bit colors, support for conversion to 8-bit color, 
support for rectangles of any width and added two new MMX routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Henrik Stokseth rewrote get_gfx_mode_list() likewise rewrote the 
mode-selector to use get_gfx_mode_list(). Also added fetch_mode_list() 
functions on the DirectX, VGA, Mode-X and Xtended GFX drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Angelo Mottola fixed problems with SMP on the BeOS port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Eric Botcazou fixed some problems with the non-MMX code in the 
color convertor. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Sven Sandberg improved spline() for DRAW_MODE_TRANS 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Peter Wang renamed clear() to clear_bitmap(). clear() is still 
provided for backwards compatibility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Stepan Roh made fractal generator work under non-Intel 
processors. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Eric Botcazou made a valid display switch mode of SWITCH_NONE 
under DOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Angelo Mottola made the BeOS port use the new unified color 
conversion routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Peter Wang added check to see if display is local under X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Eric Botcazou and Sven Sandberg fixed compilation under 
Watcom 10.6. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Elias Pschernig contributed an icon resource fixer for the 
Windows port and added support for shared library under BeOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Angelo Mottola added a bfixicon utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Stepan Roh made the native Allegro time format of ANSI time_t. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Peter Wang added an ustrtok_r() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Robert J. Ohannessian optimized some masked_blits with SSE 
instructions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Angelo Mottola did a sound fix for audiostream output and SMP 
machines and added triple buffering support on the BeOS port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Angelo Mottola added fetch_mode_list() support to the BeOS 
fullscreen driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Eric Botcazou changed the acceleration scheme for the mouse under 
Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Peter Wang added fetch_mode_list() support to the svgalib driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Peter Wang added pthread timer and removed dependancy to SIGALRM. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Henrik Stokseth added Windows XP detection. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Andreas Kluge fixed a bug with volume setting in the DOS 
Soundscape driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Angelo Mottola rewrote the BeOS sound driver to use the 
BSoundPlayer class. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Robert J. Ohannessian added SSE and SSE2 detection. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Connelly Barnes fixed a bug with the DirectSound pan. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Eric Botcazou added support of switch modes to the test program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Eric Botcazou modified the Windows switch mechanism. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Angelo Mottola added fullscreen display switching support and did 
many fixes and cleanups on the BeOS port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Henrik Stokseth added code to get more os info under unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Nimrod Abing fixed a bug in the config routines related to the 
NULL section. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Eric Botcazou fixed a crash in the Windows windowed driver on fast 
machines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Ronaldo Hideki Yamada did a large update on the PowerMac port and 
added a midi driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Henrik Stokseth generalised the support for processor specific 
optimisations in some makefiles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Evert Glebbeek put set_gfx_mode on a diet and added config entry 
for specifying the card to use for GFX_AUTODETECT_WINDOWED. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Robert J. Ohannessian made blit not convert between colordepths 
for video bitmaps. (for AllegroGL) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Peter Wang made fix_filename_slashes() handle both types of 
slashes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz implemented a switch in makedoc to check 
for long (>77) doc lines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Owen Rudge contributed a DLL version resource script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Sven Sandberg made the rotation functions faster, more accurate 
and working with any type of bitmap. Also removed 
rotate_scaled_sprite_flip(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Angelo Mottola added fetch_mode_list() support to DGA2. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: David A. Capello made test program use transparent polygon types. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Owen Rudge contributed a mkdata.bat script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added reload_config_texts(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Eric Botcazou added an enhanced building mechanism for DLL 
export definition files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.38: Eric Botcazou added a new unicode example program and did a ton of 
small fixes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Johan Peitz fixed and enhanced the Win32 joystick driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Sven Sandberg added Ctrl + arrow keys to d_edit_proc(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou changed the color key for the Windows overlay 
driver to bright pink. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou reverted some changes he made to the timer core 
last release which were causing problems with the MIDI player, and 
removed the Windows multithreaded timer driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Henrik Stokseth made some updates to the OS detection code, and 
added a os_multitasking variable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou fixed a problem in the config routines, where 
entries in the NULL section were hiding duplicate entries in other 
sections. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou made the setup program use Unicode functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Henrik Stokseth unified the fix* scripts, and gave them new 
options. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Peter Wang added support for dynamically loaded modules under 
Unix. The SVGAlib, ALSA digital, ALSA MIDI, ESD and DGA2 drivers will 
be built as modules when possible. This removes external dependencies 
on the main library and improves binary transportability under Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou made many changes and bug fixes to the Unicode 
string functions, and their use in the library.  The old functions now 
behave exactly like the libc equivalents, while the new functions (the 
'z' functions) behave more sanely. This change affects most code which 
uses the Unicode functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Bertrand Coconnier changed the recently merged scene rendering 
API, fixed a bug, and provided a new example program. The API change 
will affect all code which uses the scene functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Laurence Withers wrapped registration of the bitmap file types 
in a constructor. Where constructors are supported, this should reduce 
the executable size when statically linking (unless you use the bitmap 
loaders, of course). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Ben Davis modified the set_volume_per_voice scale. Please see 
the docs for this function if you have used it in the past. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou worked around a DOS mouse bug under Win2k. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou added VGA Mode 13h support under DirectX 5 or 
greater. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Henrik Stokseth added a get_gfx_mode_list() function, and the 
implementation of it for the VESA driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou and Annie Testes toiled hard to avoid buffer 
overflows (particularly with regards to the Unicode functions). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou fixed a mouse mickeys bug and cleaned up the 
input subsystem under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou made two minor changes in the handling of index 0 
in paletted modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou added a transparency preserving feature to the 
grabber and dat utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou fixed a crash when alt-tabbing in page flipping 
under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Peter Wang added gui_menu_draw_menu and gui_menu_draw_menu_item 
to allow customising the look of the GUI menus (to a certain extent). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Angelo Mottola added support for the new 
GFX_AUTODETECT_FULLSCREEN and GFX_AUTODETECT_WINDOWED constants, which 
we _all_ wholeheartedly agreed upon :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eduard Bloch made config vars which exist but are empty return 
defaults. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Elias Pschernig added a COLORCONV_KEEP_TRANS mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Henrik Stokseth added support for compiling with Cygwin. It 
works in Mingw compatibility mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Angelo Mottola made GUI submenus automatically open when the 
mouse hovers for long enough. (This was an old patch that finally got 
merged.) Eric made some related modifications to it later. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou made clear_keybuf() not clear the key[] array. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Sven Sandberg added a --quick option to fix scripts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Angelo Mottola did _loads_ of work on the QNX port (much too 
much to document here). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou made the Win32 asm color conversion code for 
windowed drivers available for other ports, and added a few other 
converters. Isaac Cruz added one too. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: Eric Botcazou restructured the config file format.  Some 
previously unsectioned variables are now in sections. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: George Foot added a threading system to handle asynchronous 
events, instead of using SIGALRM (under Unix). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.37: George Foot fixed some problems with pack_fgets(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou made it so that set_keyboard_rate(0, 0) will 
disable keyboard repeat, as in the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Annie Testes added font_height, render_char, char_length hooks 
to FONT_VTABLE. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou made some minor changes related to AllegroGL in 
the window management code, and fixed two little mouse bugs Javier 
Gonzalez had found (both under Windows). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou added a get_desktop_resolution() function for 
Windows and X. Joshua Haberman added a BeOS version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Angelo Mottola comprehensively started a QNX port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Robert Ohannessian corrected src/dest ordering in additive 
blenders. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou improved support of external windows in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Peter Wang updated the SVGAlib driver for version 2. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Peter Wang added a fullscreen version of the X-Windows graphics 
driver. The original was by Benjamin Joel Stover. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Peter Wang made grabber use file_select_ex(). This is just here 
so you don't get a shock :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou fixed some small bugs in the DirectSound input code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou fixed the NumLock state in X not matching 
keyboard LEDs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou reenabled the multi-threaded timer under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou and Javier Gonzalez made the keyboard repeat 
system more efficient. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou fixed some asm blitters, and also a bug with 
changing timer speeds. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Peter Wang made the keypad return / * - + ASCII values even if 
NumLock is off, under Linux console. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Ronaldo Hideki Yamada made a big update of the Mac port, 
including some new PPC files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: The GGI driver was removed, due to its inability to actually 
work. It is no longer supported, unless someone rewrites it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou fixed a problem with the GDI driver when compiled 
with MSVC. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Some MIDI fixes by Javier Gonzalez and Eric Botcazou. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz improved the fb.modes line parsing 
function in the fbcon driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz changed the behaviour of GFX_SAFE. 
This means that "set_gfx_mode(GFX_SAFE, ...)" now returns an error if 
it is unable to set a video mode, just like any other video driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou fixed volume setting in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Eric Botcazou added DirectX 3 compatibility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.36: Nick Kochakian added input routines to the DirectSound driver. 
It was also modified by Javier Gonzalez. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou made Windows restore the original sound volume 
after an Allegro program quits. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou fixed sample looping in DirectSound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz solved some color problems in the 
demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Angelo Mottola implemented a close button hook for X11. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou fixed _the_ Windows 2000 keyboard bug. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou made some changes to the locking/unlocking 
mechanism in the Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Laurence Withers made some modules avoid linking 
dependencies. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Javier Gonzalez added close button support for Windows. 
{\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400     \par \pard \li400 \pard \li400 \par 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou improved mouse handling in the GFX_GDI driver 
and fixed some other mouse glitches. 
\par \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Peter Wang made set_mouse_sprite(NULL) regenerate the 
default arrow bitmap (using the current palette). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou made hardware accelerated primitives stop 
when the user switches out in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Tom St Denis fixed clipping of transparent objects. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou and Javier Gonzalez improved switching in 
Windows and other things. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Peter Wang made the Linux joystick driver use standard 
constants. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Sven Sandberg changed the Z-buffer API. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Peter Wang made the default mouse sprite independent of the 
palette in 8 bpp modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Bertrand Coconnier added documentation for the P3D merge. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Angelo Mottola fixed desktop_color_depth() and added window 
close button support for the BeOS port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Ben Davis added the set_window_close_button() and 
set_window_close_hook() framework. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Peter Wang exposed the mouse_sprite, mouse_x_focus and 
mouse_y_focus variables. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Robert Ohannessian and Javier Gonzalez fixed bad clearing 
of subbitmaps. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Peter Wang renamed GFX_XDFS to GFX_XDGA_FULLSCREEN. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Henrik Stokseth updated the cross-compilation system. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Tomohiko Sugiura added some keys and renamed some JP keys. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou added a DirectDraw2 interface, with support 
for refresh rates. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Bertrand Coconnier merged in Calin Andrian's P3D library. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Javier Gonzalez made allegro_message() use the title from 
set_window_title() in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Andreas Kluge fixed division bugs in the fix class. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Stepan Roh documented the FA_* flags. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Peter Wang added hooks to allow overriding the look of 
standard dialogs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Peter Wang changed X window placement and mapping behaviour. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: David A. Capello made dotted_rect() avoid bank switches. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou fixed a freezing problem under Window with 
locking/unlocking bitmaps under heavy load. He received help 
tracking down the bug from Javier Gonzalez. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Stepan Roh fixed a bug with FA_RDONLY constant under Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: Eric Botcazou cleaned up the Windows graphics subsystem. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.35: "Sask Allegro" added support for more than two joysticks in 
the Windows port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Ben Davis made close button in Windows windowed modes not 
simulate Escape key, in preparation for new behaviour (in next WIP). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Laurence Withers fixed a problem with accents in keyconf. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Javier Gonzalez added DIGMID to the Windows MIDI drivers list. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Eric Botcazou cleaned up the DirectDraw subsystem. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Eric Botcazou made the DirectDraw overlay driver comply with 
page flipping and triple buffering code, amongst other things. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Bertrand Coconnier improved subtexel accuracy for texture 
mapping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Javier Gonzalez corrected mouse movement speed in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Ben Davis adapted polygon functions to handle two coincident 
vertices, and changed and clarified texture coordinate alignment in 
code and documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz fleshed out the docs for Unicode 
functions, adapting from djgpp and gcc docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Eric Botcazou fixed a triple buffering problem in the 
DirectDraw accelerated driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Henrik Stokseth added support for cross-compilation in the 
mingw32 build. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz updated more examples for GFX_SAFE. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Ben Davis added set_volume_per_voice(), made silent voices 
continue playing and fixed other minor bugs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Ben Davis fixed a bug in create_rgb_table(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Angelo Mottola added display switching routines for BeOS and 
fixed some bugs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Laurence Withers updated documentation about `const'. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Ronaldo Hideki Yamada contributed a macintosh port of Allegro. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz changed and documented new GFX_SAFE 
behaviour (that color depth is undefined), updated the fbcon driver to 
take advantage of this and updated example programs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Peter Pavlovic fixed a bug caused by file selector stretching. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Bertrand Coconnier fixed bugs related to poly3d(); removed 
never-called C versions of scanline functions for POLYTYPE_FLAT and 
non-8bpp POLYTYPE_GCOL; and made clip3d() and clip3d_f() functions 
compliant with Z-buffered polygons. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Stepan Roh added C version of masked_stretch_blit(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Angelo Mottola did more work on BeOS: hardware acceleration 
(rect, hline, vline, clear_to_color, blit); mouse fix in windowed mode; 
desktop_color_depth(); yield_timeslice(); 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Peter Wang retroactively updated CHANGES and AUTHORS from 
late 3.9.33 to present using CVS logs and email archives, and 
possibly messed up. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Angelo Mottola added a BeOS windowed driver (originally by 
Peter Wang), a BeOS MIDI driver, mouse wheel support under BeOS and 
made many bug fixes and changes to other BeOS code and documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Laurence Withers fixed dat2s output of fonts for new font 
subsystem. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Peter Wang made the SVGAlib driver more robust. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Peter Wang changed the way Intellimouse protocols are selected 
under Linux console. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Eric Botcazou added file_select_ex and reverted file_select to 
old behaviour. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Laurence Withers added ugetcx() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Laurence Withers designed and implemented a new FONT structure, 
which should provide many advantages over the old one. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Eric Botcazou made more fixes to Windows code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Bertrand Coconnier added a z-buffer rendering mode for 3D 
polygons (derived from Calin Andrian's P3D library) and an example 
program for it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Michael Bukin added customization for keycode to scancode 
mapping in X. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Peter Wang added mouse wheel support to d_textbox_proc and 
d_slider_proc, and made file selector dialog stretch. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Tom Fjellstrom added an ALSA MIDI driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Eric Botcazou made some changes to the Windows windowed driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz updated the documentation and the 
makedoc program to produce better .texi output. The new version works 
very well with the texi2dvi program, which produces fine ready to print 
device independent output. Also documented the new unix makefile targets. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: George Foot added --env option to allegro-config script. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Benjamin Stover made some vararg fixes in unicode.c and added a 
workaround for missing defines in fbcon.c. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Robin Burrows added a Windows waveOut sound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Eric Botcazou changed desktop_color_depth() for Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Angelo Mottola added line switching and refresh rate support to 
DGA2 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Bertrand Coconnier added scanline subdivisions and fixed 3D 
polygon drawing. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Angelo Mottola added BeOS joystick driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Angelo Mottola added DGA2 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Robin Burrows added Windows sound driver using Allegro mixer. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Stepan Roh added workaround for fceil defined in Irix headers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Michael Bukin changed DGA screen clearing. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Tomohiko Sugiura added a more aggressive Sidewinder driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Tomohiko Sugiura added three Japanese keys. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Stepan Roh made C functions const-correct. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Bertrand Coconnier fixed blending in atex_lit scanline 
functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Michael Bukin modified text_mode to return previous mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Peter Pavlovic fixed scrollbar display in grabber and improved 
scrolling in GUI objects. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: anarko made GUI objects restore textmode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Laurence Withers added font destroy hook. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Vincent Penquerc'h modified the mouse button press/release events 
so they have higher priority than double-click events. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Eric Botcazou improved colormap handling in XDGA. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.34: Robin Burrows provided a new page flipping code for the DirectDraw 
subsytem, which now works on every graphic card. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Henrik Stokseth updated the mingw32 makefile, the documentation 
and sent in some other related fixes and updates. You will never again 
need MSVC to compile the Allegro DLLs. ;o) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Peter Puck contributed some updates to Allegro's win32 code 
which got the native mingw32 build fully working. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Michael Bukin changed the auto-repeat handling in X, 
sched_yield handling for Unix, fixed _add_exit_func, and added list of 
active dialogs to the GUI. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Vincent Penquerc'h sped up the C versions of the RLE sprite 
drawing routines by quite a bit. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Peter Wang improved TGA palette loading. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Laurence Withers made more functions const-correct. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Isaac Cruz moved Windows bitmap locking to a separate .S file, 
changed the update logic for the windowed driver, and added an accelerated 
vline implementation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Stephen Kittelson fixed a bug in pckeys.c, and changed the ASCII 
values returned for a few weird key combinations. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Peter Wang made various functions const-correct. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Peter Pavlovic made aesthetic modifications to the GUI menu 
system. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Javier Gonzalez suggested that the file and mode selector dialogs 
should use popup_dialog. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Vincent Penquerc'h added the install-gzipped-man makefile target, 
patched some of the EINTR handling, and made the OSS driver detect whether 
the device is 16 bit or not. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Peter Pavlovic modified the Slovak keyboard mapping and made the 
file selector detect available drives in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Peter Wang added a sound (output only) driver for BeOS. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Sven Sandberg fixed a typo in the definition of ustrdup, added 
the uwidth_max function, provided the d_yield_proc function, and made 
various dialogs use it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Michael Bukin made the DGA driver clear video memory and centre 
the screen, if it's not fullscreen. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Eduard Bloch suggested better ways to find the executable in 
Unix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Andrew Geers added flipped rotated sprites. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: George Foot made the Unix makefile work for non-root users. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz made language config files be forced 
to lower case. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added documentation for findfirst(), 
findnext(), and findclose(), and corrected the documentation for 
get_executable_name(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Stepan Roh made patches to allow compilation on IRIX. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: John Harger made a change to improve the stability of AllegroGL 
in Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Sven Sandberg fixed a bug in the plain C 16bpp stretched blitter. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: George Foot fixed a bug in the i386 8bpp masked blit routines, 
reported by Damian Yerrick. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Eduard Bloch fixed a freeze caused by the ESD detection code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Vincent Penquerc'h added mouse button press/release events to 
the GUI system. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Peter Wang solved a conflict with SVGAlib. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Vincent Penquerc'h added the XCRP and YCRP properties to bitmap 
objects in datafiles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Vincent Penquerc'h made the GUI system not send MSG_DRAW to 
hidden objects. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Chris La Mantia pointed out that his code for textprintf_right 
had mutated somehow. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Peter Wang added a workaround for a mouse motion reporting bug 
in some X servers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Eric Botcazou altered the DGA code to work better in 32bpp modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Daniel Nilsson tweaked exstars and exlights 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Isaac Cruz fixed a nasty bug with subbitmap locking, and added 
desktop_color_depth and yield_timeslice support to the Windows version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.33: Peter Cech made uisspace() recognise non-ASCII space characters. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: S.Sakamaki added a function for controlling the refresh rate when 
using the DOS VESA 3.0 driver (this could also be supported by some other 
drivers if anyone wants to implement that). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: S.Suzuki added DOS drivers for the IF-SEGA /PCI, /PCI2, and /ISA 
joystick interface cards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: Fabrizio Gennari added DOS drivers for multisystem joysticks with 
9-pin connectors (Atari, Commodore 64, MSX). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: Peter Pavlovic improved the support for accented character maps 
in the keyboard driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: Sven Sandberg optimised the GUI listbox scrolling to skip redraws 
if it can't keep up with the update speed. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: Olly Betts did some work to make cross-compiling the djgpp 
version work on Linux. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: Isaac Cruz improved the windowed mode ddraw driver, adding 
support for many different color depth conversions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: Vincent Penquerc'h added an update selection function to the 
grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: many bugfixes from various people. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: zipup.sh now generates dependencies entirely using standard Unix 
tools and gcc, so it can setup all the supported platforms without 
needing those compilers to be available (ie. I can create Watcom, BeOS, 
and Mingw32 dependencies all from my Linux machine). This does require a 
bit of cooperation from the different targets, though: they have to set 
up their "make depend" target to override the standard gcc defines, and 
wrap any non-standard header includes with "#ifndef SCAN_DEPEND". 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: fixed (I hope :-) bug with non-GMT timezones in the datafile 
update code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.32: rewrote the Unicode usprintf() to piggyback on libc when 
converting floating point data (too hard to get this right ourselves :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Henrik Stokseth did some work on a native Mingw32 build. This is 
currently incomplete, and unlikely to work right now since there have 
been other changes in the Windows code since the version he started from. 
At the moment this version is statically linked, using makefile.mgs, and 
makefile.mgw still exists for the MSVC-piggyback version. The ultimate 
goal is to get this native version building as a DLL in addition to 
statically linked, at which point we can merge both makefiles into 
makefile.mgw and remove makefile.mgs. Oh yeah, and there are currently no 
docs for the native version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Greg Hackmann contributed a Borland C++ Builder port. Like the 
RSXNT and Mingw32 versions, this is a client for the MSVC DLL, and not 
able to compile Allegro directly itself, but allows you to build Allegro 
programs using the Borland compiler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Robert Ohannessian added MMX optimisation for the 8 and 16 bit 
clear() functions, and Jose Antonio Luque optimised the 16 bit blit() and 
masked_blit() routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Vincent Penquerc'h added a yield_timeslice() function (currently 
implemented in DOS and Unix). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: added a desktop_color_depth() function (currently only 
implemented in X: a Windows version will follow). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Isaac Cruz added support for windowed modes in color depths other 
than the current Windows desktop, and hardware accelerated system bitmaps. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Jose Antonio Luque improved the Windows joystick driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: James Hyman added support for dithering truecolor down to 
paletted images. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Chris La Mantia added textout_right(), textprintf_right(), and 
textprintf_justify() functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Sven Sandberg added a ustrrchr() function, and improved the 
usprintf() handling of large floating point values. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Peter Pavlovic added a Slovak keyboard mapping and message 
translation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Manni Heumann fixed some problems with the German keyboard 
mapping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Michael Bukin improved the X keyboard and mouse handling, and 
fixed some problems with building on non-GNU Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: many bugfixes and tweaks from various people (sorry, my typing 
patience has run out so you don't get a full list :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: Peter Wang added input support to the Linux OSS sound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.31: David Kuhling optimised the i386/gcc fsqrt() code, and added an 
fhypot() routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: fixed the double XOR that was making datafile passwords so easy 
to reverse. The new code can still read old-style encrypted files, but 
data written by this version can't be accessed by older copies of Allegro. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: made load_datafile(), load_datafile_object(), and the 
file.dat#object syntax work correctly in all possible combinations. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: Vincent Penquerc'h added a scare_mouse_area() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: changed the DirectX surface locking mechanism, to improve the 
performance of hardware accelerated drawing. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: George Foot improved the Linux LED code, and made the internal X 
driver state visible via xalleg.h. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: added EINTR retry handling to read/write calls. I hope I got this 
right: if anyone who properly groks this stuff could check over file.c, 
that would be cool. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: made the Windows mouse driver work correctly in windowed mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: fixed various problems with Windows foreground/background 
switching (keys were getting stuck down, timers weren't being paused, and 
not all the right switching modes were being reported to the caller). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: made the X keyboard handler release all keys when it loses the 
input focus, to avoid stuck buttons when you alt+tab between windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: made the allegro-lib script arguments compatible with the 
standard used by GTK, ESD, etc, and renamed it to allegro-config. This 
changes the syntax for linking Allegro programs on Unix: see readme.uni 
for details of the new method. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: George Foot improved the Unix shared library system. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: Joerg Rueppel added a find_datafile_object() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: Peter Wang improved the SVGAlib driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.30: Peter Wang improved the Linux joystick driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: made the Windows code agree with other platforms about how video 
bitmaps are supposed to behave. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: fixed some problems with the Windows mouse wheel support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: added set_write_alpha_blender(), set_add_blender() and 
create_blender_table() functions, and made the 32 bit version of 
draw_trans_sprite() able to use 8 bit source images in conjunction with 
set_write_alpha_blender(). In addition to being generally useful, using 
these routines makes the sources for my SpeedHack entry much smaller :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: added uninstall targets to the Linux makefile. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: made the X windowed mouse driver hide the Allegro cursor when the 
mouse moves out of our window. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: added a simple timer delay emulation of vsync() to the X code, so 
that eg. the demo worms game runs sensibly. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: Isaac Cruz added a GFX_DIRECTX_WIN driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: Keith Gerdes made some more improvements to the DirectX overlay 
driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: Andrew Geers added scrolling support to the grabber image viewer. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: Peter Wang added an alternative X DGA driver, that includes mode 
switching support to run in fullscreen mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: Peter Wang added a MSG_WHEEL event to the GUI, and made 
d_list_proc() use it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: Lucas Vignoli Reis added a Portuguese (Brazil) message 
translation and keyboard mapping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: Peter Wang added a Linux OSS MIDI driver for FM synth devices, 
and mixer support for the OSS digital driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: George Foot added scripts for building various Linux distribution 
formats. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: Michael Bukin fixed the portability problems in quantize.c. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: added a zipwin.sh script for making Windows binary distributions, 
including a batch file that can compile the MSVC support programs without 
having any GNU tools installed. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: fixed bug with color font rendering in the Windows version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: added hardware accelerated rectfill() and hline() to the Windows 
version, and fixed a couple of accel related bugs (clears were being 
clipped wrongly, and it was claiming to support XOR drawing even though 
that isn't supported). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.29: Michael Bukin fixed bug with X drawing onto screen sub-bitmaps. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: various documentation updates. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: added parameter autodetection to the Unix OSS sound driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: made it possible to nest calls to the Unix for_each_file() 
routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: added a load_datafile_callback() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: rationalised the sound config variables, so they can be shared 
between drivers more easily. For instance sb_freq has been renamed to 
sound_freq. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: Antti Koskipaa added a DOS driver for WSS (Windows Sound System) 
cards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: the audiosteam code is now able to merge multiple buffers into a 
single larger one, so it will still work correctly even if the user 
supplies a buffer smaller than the current soundcard transfer size. You 
can even play streams with single byte buffers now, as long as you refill 
them often enough! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: made the Windows timer code more robust, so it will no longer 
lock up when you install extremely high frequency callbacks. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: Teijo Hakala added wheel support to the Windows mouse driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: Peter Wang added wheel support to the X mouse driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: Andrew Geers added -ppassword and -nosound options to the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: Keith Gerdes fixed the DirectDraw overlay mode driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: Isaac Cruz fixed the bug with accelerated drawing onto sub 
bitmaps of DirectDraw surfaces. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: Peter Wang added banked mode support to the SVGAlib driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: Peter Wang fixed some problems with the ESD sound driver, and 
added an ALSA driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: palette fading speed is now timer regulated, to avoid problems 
with some systems (eg. DGA with non-matching color depth) where it can be 
excessively slow. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: fixed a couple of different overflow bugs that were causing 
timers to run slow on heavily loaded Unix systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: added a display of author credits to the demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: changed the info page installation system. It now creates a dir 
file in the same directory as the info page, rather than messing around 
with symlinks, and autoconf is used to locate the install-info program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: added an allegro-lib script to the Unix installation, which can 
be run by makefiles to find the right linker commandline for building 
Allegro programs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: added a manpage output format to the makedoc utility. It doesn't 
work terribly well with apropos due to the lack of a one-line summary for 
each function, but the basic formatting seems to be ok: please let me 
know if you see any problems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: patches from George Foot for Linux console handing, keyboard, and 
filename manipulations. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.28: many improvements by Michael Bukin, in particular enhanced 
performance in X, better X mouse behaviour, and DGA graphics support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Robert J. Ragno made some improvements to the Wingman, PSX, and 
throttle joystick input code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Peter Wang added wheel input support to the Linux mouse code 
(this shows up as a new mouse_z state variable). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Patrick Hogan made Windows audiostreams work properly. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Sven Sandberg optimised the spline routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Tomohiko Sugiura added KEY_YEN and KEY_YEN2 Japanese keys to the 
input handler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Chris Robinson wrote a fixed point version of clip3d_f(), called 
(surprise!) clip3d(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Sven Sandberg improved the file selector sorting algorithm. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Henrik Stokseth improved the OS detection in the Windows lib. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Sven Sandberg made more accurately rounded lookup tables for the 
fixed point trig routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: George Foot made the fbcon driver reset the palette on exit. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: much new X code from Michael Bukin: this stuff is working 
brilliantly now! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: added the X library path to the Linux liballeg.a wrapper. I think 
I prefer Michael's idea of having a script to return this info, though, 
so perhaps we should change across to doing it that way. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: fixed various bugs in both the C and i386 RLE sprite code (mostly 
relating to lit modes and hicolor formats). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: front-ported various fixes from the 3.12 release, to make 
WARNMODE=1 compile cleanly with gcc 2.95. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.27: Knut Pape improved the Mingw32 readme file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: rewrote the DOS Sidewinder driver, after powerjaw sent me a pad 
to test it with. It still doesn't work for me in DOS mode, but it is ok 
under Windows, which is better than before, and as good as any of the 
other Sidewinder code that I've been able to locate. If anyone has or 
knows of code that works better than this, please let me know! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: more flexible mode flags for set_color_conversion(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: Robert J. Ragno added a driver for Gravis GrIP devices. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: Gorka Olaizola added a Redhat RPM .spec file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: Stepan Roh updated the Czech translation and added multiple 
codepage support to the textconv utility, and a Unicode-aware ustrtod() 
function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: added ustrdup() to the Unicode support functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: Sven Sandberg optimised the gcc fixed point math routines to 
collapse constant expressions at compile time. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: Stefan T. Boettner added a proper Linux SVGAlib driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: several tweaks from Vincent Penquerc'h (added a datafile merge 
function to the grabber, GUI bugfixes, optimised spline calculation, fix 
for 24 bit version of the C drawing code). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: Linux patches from Michael Bukin improve the OSS sound driver, 
SIGALRM handling, and X keyboard driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.26: many Linux patches from George Foot (fixes to the mouse driver, 
shared library and configure script, and assorted other stuff). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.25: fixed pckeys.c to leave sensible data in the key[] array when 
doing numeral vs. arrow key numlock fakery. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.25: fixed a bunch of problems with the SWITCH_BACKGROUND mode (I'd 
stupidly forgotten to disable a lot of graphics driver functions that 
could do bad things if called when the Allegro console isn't active). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.25: added pivot_sprite() and pivot_scaled_sprite() functions (thanks 
to Matt Jallo for the suggestion). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.25: added ustrerror() to the standard Unicode support functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.25: fixed the d_edit_proc() GUI object to handle shift+tab focus 
movement properly. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.25: lots of Linux patches from George Foot (proper fbcon mode 
setting, different mouse types and setup program support for configuring 
them, fixes to the shared library support, exedat no longer destroys the 
file permissions, and probably some other stuff that I forgot about). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.24: assorted bugfixes to the Linux fbcon and sound code (this is 
mostly an emergency release because these were broken in 3.9.23). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.24: James Arthur wrote some docs for the Photoshop-style truecolor 
blender routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.23: Michael Bukin added an OSS sound driver to the Linux code, and 
the beginnings of an ESD driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.23: many Linux patches from George Foot, including shared library 
support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.23: Ole Laursen made the Unicode utolower() and utoupper() functions 
understand the entire 16 bit character set. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.23: Pavlos Touboulidis made file_select() able to include or exclude 
files based on their attributes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.23: the d_check_proc() GUI object can now print the text to the right 
of the check, selected by having a non-zero d1 field. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.23: changed my mind about how GFX_SAFE should work, and removed the 
color depth emulation bodges. Now, the GFX_SAFE driver may simply change 
the color depth if it doesn't like what you are requesting, and it is up 
to the caller to deal with this. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.23: fixed problems with MMX polygon rendering code in the MSVC 
version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.23: added a strictwarn option to the configure script, and fixed 
everything that it moaned about. The warnings still aren't all that 
strict: at some point I want to sit down and make it build cleanly with 
-W, as well as -Wall -Werror. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: fixed some potential race conditions introduced by my previous 
fixes to the Windows timer code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: made set_display_switch_callback() able to install multiple hook 
functions, added a remove_display_switch_callback() routine, and wrote an 
exswitch example program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: adjusted MSVC inline asm syntax in an attempt to work around 
compiler version conflicts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: more flexible GFX_SAFE system. As well as defining fixed safe 
values for each platform, you can now leave out those definitions to get 
zeros passed through to the actual hardware drivers, and if your driver 
sets a color depth other than the requested one, graphics.c will hook up 
some emulation routines so that everything still works in a sensible way. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: George Foot added a scancode to ASCII conversion function to the 
keyboard driver (implemented for DOS, Windows, Linux, and X). This is 
needed to handle alt+key input sensibly when using unusual mappings like 
the Dvorak layout. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: Linux patches from George add better console switching, shared 
library support, and various other nice things. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: Windows patch from Stefan adds much cool new stuff, including 
windowed mode support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: Peter Wang made the Linux GGI driver work properly. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: Johan Venter made some more improvements to the RSXNT and Mingw32 
makefiles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.22: updated the Watcom makefile to allow manual override of the 10.6 
vs. 11.0 version detection, in case it guesses wrong. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: Windows patch from Stefan adds support for the new screen mode 
switching system. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: more BeOS patches from Jason Wilkins. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: Johan Venter fixed some problems with the RSXNT and Mingw32 
makefiles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: ran "configure --enable-asm=no", and fixed all the reasons why 
this didn't work. In particular there was a bug in patterned drawing 
modes, RLE sprites were broken, and I'd forgotten to add C versions of 
the RGBA sprite functions. Those of you who are interested in such things 
will be interested to know that the test program thinks the C drawing 
code is 20% slower at hline(), 10% slower at rectfill(), 50% slower at 
blitting, and 40% slower at draw_sprite(), which is not at all bad going. 
It's actually a bit faster at drawing translucent and lit sprites, so we 
need to have a look at that! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: many new Linux patches from George Foot. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: added VBE/AF support to the Linux code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: finished the Linux fbcon driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: made Linux console switching work in a more complete manner, with 
a set of helper functions in dispsw.c. The background mode should work 
now, but is untested. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: added Linux GGI driver by Carsten Schmidt (this is somewhat out 
of date, and doesn't work yet, but a good start if anyone wants to hack 
on it). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: improved the Unix configure and build system. Moved more things 
into makefile.lst, so there are no file lists anywhere else now. Made it 
understand how to build the datafile tools, and convert the documentation 
(this may cause problems for systems without makeinfo: it would be good 
if someone who groks autoconf could try to do this better). Made the 
Linux VGA drivers (vga and modex) configurable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: added ctrl+alt+end abort sequence to the Linux keyboard driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: directory structure changes: moved ufile.c into the misc 
directory, so BeOS can share it. Moved various helper scripts into the 
misc directory, including a cmplog.pl that compares two test.exe profile 
logs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.21: made the Linux PS2 mouse driver understand the middle button. 
Added a scaling factor to make it go at a more sensible speed in SVGA 
modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: started working on a driver for the Linux fbcon device. It works, 
but can't change video mode yet. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: Windows patch from Stefan adds joystick input, and the beginnings 
of a windowed mode driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: moved all filename lists (even the platform specific ones) into 
makefile.lst, to avoid any duplication and give us a nice centralised 
place that mentions every single source file we use. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: removed the install_lost_bitmap_callback() function, in favour of 
the more generic set_display_switch_mode(). Updated the Windows code to 
use these new routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: merged X patch from Michael Bukin (adds mouse support). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: Vincent Penquerc'h optimised the 256 to truecolor graphics 
blitting code to avoid repeated conversions of the palette table. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: James Hyman added quoting support to get_config_argv(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: Peter Cech optimised the alpha sprite blending routines. Shawn 
optimised them a bit more by expanding out specialised versions for 
common pixel formats. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: Richard Davies made some improvements to the PSX joypad driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: added a system driver parameter to allegro.cfg, and hooks to make 
the Unix version look for config data in /etc/ and ~/. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: moved the Posix findfirst() emulation into libc.c, removing it 
from the autoconf and BeOS specific builds. 
{\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400  \par \pard \li400 \pard \li400 \par 3.9.20: more BeOS patches from Jason Wilkins. The graphics stuff be 
working there now! 
\par \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: improved the VBE/AF driver to know that vertical lines can be 
implemented as a rectfill. This enables hardware acceleration for 
patterned vertical lines, and with drivers that don't have hardware 
support for the VBE/AF line draw routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: George Foot did some major work on the Linux console version, 
getting it up and running in a fairly convincing way. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.20: the Windows sound driver lists are now dynamically generated 
based on the available devices, so you can select which ones to use. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: wrote the first part of an Allegro Hacker's Guide, which is my 
(probably futile :-) attempt to document at least a few of the more gory 
parts of the Allegro code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: finally got around to documenting the Unicode functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: more BeOS patches from Jason Wilkins. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: Michael Bukin made some more patches to the X code (timers are 
implemented now), and added a complete (?) C implementation of all the 
drawing code. Non-Intel machines, here we come! If you define 
ALLEGRO_USE_C before building the djgpp library, you can actually test 
out a pure C version of test.exe, the demo game, etc. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: added a findtext.sh script, which scans the source code and 
creates a list of all the strings that are available for translation. It 
can also compare this list against an existing translation file, to see 
if any new messages need to be added. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: Stepan Roh updated the Czech keyboard mapping for Unicode 
support, added support for keyconf to use a non-standard font, and added 
the Latin Extended-A characters (U+0100 to U+017F) to the default font. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz updated the Spanish translation with 
UTF-8 format (ie. properly accented) strings. Converted the setup program 
font into Latin-1 ordering so that this will display correctly. Fixed bug 
with dat2s not correctly converting the resulting multiple-range font. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: Chris La Mantia made some cosmetic fixes to the d_slider_proc() 
GUI object. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: Richard Davies added support for N64 joypads. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: added keyboard_ucallback() (I missed this one when I first added 
the Unicode support). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.19: made some changes to setup.c so that it can easily be embedded 
into other programs (thanks to Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz for the 
suggestion). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.18: added support for 32 bit RGBA images. You can now read TGA files 
with an alpha channel into the grabber, or you can import a normal image 
and then overlay alpha data from any greyscale bitmap. You can save these 
alpha channels as part of a datafile, call the makeacol(r, g, b, a) 
function, and most importantly, call set_alpha_blender() and then 
draw_trans_sprite() to display them. Check out exalpha.c. There is much 
room to optimise the 15, 16, and 24 bit versions of _blender_alpha*(), if 
anyone wants to have a go at this. I think it would be profitable to 
write specific versions for common pixel orderings, and only keep the 
current generic implementation around as an emergency fallback. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.18: more Unix patches from Michael Bukin. It builds flawlessly now, 
even if it doesn't do anything very interesting yet. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.18: Jason Wilkins contributed the beginnings of a BeOS port (not yet 
functional, but it does compile). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.18: Revin Guillen added a position_dialog() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.18: portability improvements: changed makefile to be a generated 
stub, which normally just includes makefile.all, but can be completely 
replaced when using autoconf, and moved the emulation for missing libc 
functions into the shared sources. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.18: numerous bugfixes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.17: Burton Radons changed the truecolor pixel blending functions to 
use a single callback function rather than the previous table. This may 
break some old code, but should remain largely backward compatible, and 
the new way is much more flexible. He also added a more complete set of 
blender functions, including Photoshop modes like burn, difference, 
lumincance, etc. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.17: Richard Davies added support for PSX joypads. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.17: fixed bug in dat2s handling of truecolor images. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.17: Jason Wilkins improved the quaternion math routines, and added 
some documentation for them. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.17: Neil Townsend added callback parameters to the timer handlers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.17: Gunter Ladwig added three-button mouse emulation, which can be 
enabled using the config file (it defaults to on if you have a two button 
mouse). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: applied some patches from Michael Bukin, which add the basics of 
a Unix build system. It doesn't actually work yet, though :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: merged new code from Stefan. Lots more cool things are working in 
the Windows version now, eg. hardware acceleration, triple buffering, 
sound... 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: added an example of how to write a Windows screensaver using 
Allegro. If anyone knows how to get a proper name to show up in the 
Windows selection dialog, please let me know! (I've made the stringtable 
entry that MSDN says you need, but it doesn't work). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: Andy Goth added a d_text_list_proc() dialog object, that lets you 
alter the selection by typing the first few characters of a list entry. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: Ole Laursen updated the Danish message translation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: Calvin French added a -w (always update) switch to dat.exe. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: Joerg Rueppel added more flexible wildcard matching for object 
names in dat.exe. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: added GFX_HW_SYS_TO_VRAM_BLIT and GFX_HW_SYS_TO_VRAM_BLIT_MASKED 
capabilities flags, and more flexible blitting functions in the vtable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: added lock_voice() and unlock_voice() methods to the digital 
sound driver, for implementing audiostreams under Windows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.16: _handle_timer_tick() now returns the desired gap until the next 
interrupt. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.15: Michael Rickmann added a Mingw32 port. This currently works the 
same way as the RSXNT version, using MSVC to build the DLL, but will 
become a full gcc port after the core Windows code stabilises a bit. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.15: Vincent Penquerc'h added a D_DIRTY flag for GUI objects, and I 
extended this with a new D_REDRAWME return code for the handlers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.15: changed the syntax of the create_color_table() callback. This 
breaks the API, but is the only way to make it work reliably with 
different compiler calling conventions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.15: added a sub bitmap creation hooks to the vtable structure (so the 
parent bitmap can be told when it is being cloned). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.15: "make install" is now a separate target, not run automatically. 
This means that you now have to run "make" and "make install" as two 
separate operations, or if you want all three versions of the library, 
"make all" and then "make installall". 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.15: added an END_OF_MAIN() macro, which makes the WinMain() magic 
work correctly in any combination of C and C++ code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.15: Olly Betts modified the djgpp makefile to support cross-compiling 
on a Linux machine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.15: Andy Goth added a 256x256 tweaked VGA mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 3.9.15: major documentation update (from now on I'll be adding a version 
number to each changelog comment). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Merged new code from Stefan. Windows version is getting much closer to 
completion, including mouse support and video bitmaps, although the mouse 
code isn't working quite right for me at the moment. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Rewrote fix_filename_path() to avoid calling _fixpath(). The new version 
is much more portable, although things like reading the current directory 
across multiple drives need some tweaking to work with different 
compilers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed oodles of things that were stopping the Watcom version from 
working. It now runs everything without any trouble at all, including 
such gems as exdodgy and the grabber shell edit! According to test.exe, 
gcc 2.8.1 is about 10% faster than Watcom 10.6 for most things, although 
for some reason textout() is about twice as fast in the Watcom version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a bunch of stuff to make the RSXNT version work. All the tests and 
examples now build with RSXNT, and work identically to the MSVC originals. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added quaternion math routines by Jason Wilkins. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added more flexible gfx_card config support by Andy Goth. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a masked_stretch_blit() function (trivial change, the code could do 
it, but the API entry point was missing). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added Windows GDI routines by Marian Dvorsky. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a DMA poll to the Soundscape driver, to make sure it can never get 
out of sync with the transfer. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Merged various bits and pieces that have been sitting around my hard 
drive for ages (Swedish and Norwegian translations, various patches from 
Michael Bukin, new palette generation code by Michal Mertl, Soundscape 
driver fixes by Andreas Kluge). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grabber now knows about and can manipulate Unicode fonts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Now passing atexit() as a parameter to install_allegro(), to avoid 
problems with DLL shutdown. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Made FLIC player set the dirty variables when clearing the bitmap at the 
start/loop point (this was sometimes causing the screen not to be cleared 
from previous contents). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed several bugs in the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Changed the datafile utilities to link the datedit and plugin routines as 
a proper library. This will make life easier for third parties that want 
to use those routines (duplicating the plugin linkage isn't much fun). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Replaced errno references with allegro_errno pointer, to avoid problems 
with multiple runtimes when linking as a DLL. The MSVC version of dat now 
works perfectly! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a system_none driver for commandline utilities and other platform 
neutral situations. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Made new demo intro animation. My first ever Max rendering! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Merged Windows patches from Stefan. Whoah! This thing is cool. It works 
(sort of :-) on two platforms. Now I can die happy.... 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The file selector now adjusts for platforms without any directory list 
(eg. Unix). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a global default_palette (the normal IBM BIOS one), and made 
set_gfx_mode() select it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Modified DIGMID driver to avoid using 64 bit ints or floating point in 
the interrupt handler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added ASSERT() and TRACE() debugging routines, and lots of asserts 
throughout the library code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The default truecolor pixel format before setting a video mode is now BGR 
rather than RGB. This should help to shake out bugs in BGR support, and 
catch any errors where people load graphics before setting a video mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed fmul() overflow detection bug. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Rewrote gpro.c and sw.c to avoid using inline asm. The SW code is 
currently very ugly (literal translation of the asm routine), but I'm 
keen to improve it given some testing feedback. If you have a Gamepad Pro 
or Sidewinder, and were able to use it with the Allegro 3.11 driver, I 
would _really_ like to hear whether this current code works for you or 
not... 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Numerous changes to make the support programs more portable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a get_executable_name() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The sound.cfg file is no longer supported. Use allegro.cfg instead. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added versions of the inline _putpixel() and _getpixel() for all color 
depths. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The check_cpu() function is now called automatically by allegro_init(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added system bitmap objects, which exist in system memory but are 
accessed in a similar way to video memory surfaces (this can enable 
better hardware acceleration on some platforms). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added enable_triple_buffer(), timer_can_simulate_retrace(), and 
timer_is_using_retrace() functions. This enables programs to correctly 
handle the interrelationship between mode-X triple buffering, the retrace 
sync mode, and the current OS, without having to include any DOS specific 
code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 GUI routines now call the input polling functions and acquire/release the 
screen as appropriate. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a real show-stopping error that was causing VBE/AF crashes on some 
machines (calling driver functions with non-flat memory selector in %es). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added an allegro_message() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added dummy bank switch routines that can emulate linear access to a 
mode-X screen, albeit rather slowly. The only practical result from this 
is that polygon routines work in mode-X now, but it helps to make things 
more robust in general (if a routine doesn't know about mode-X, now it 
will just run more slowly than usual, rather than not working at all). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The SB, Adlib, and standard joystick drivers now properly have a separate 
instance for each variant of the hardware, rather than a single driver 
pretending to exist under multiple different ID codes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Rewrote joystick polling to avoid inline asm. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Converted translation files into UTF-8 format. These can now use any 
Unicode characters they like, so accented vowels etc. can safely be used. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Keyboard scancodes have changed from the hardware format to an abstract, 
Allegro-specific encoding. This simplifies the code a great deal, and 
avoids hassles with two different keys generating the same scancode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added generic find_allegro_resource() function, which removes a lot of 
duplicated code from config.c, digmid.c, and pckeys.c. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Timer module now autoinstalls whenever someone tries to use it. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Keyboard functions can now alter the repeat rate. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Watcom port. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a special GFX_SAFE driver ID. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Now using VDS to detect win95 even when in stealth mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added fixver.sh for patching version numbers and dates when releasing a 
new version (requires bash, fileutils, shutils, etc, to run on DOS). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added zipup.sh for building a distribution zip and diffs, which 
automatically cleans up the tree ready for this (eg. pregenerating the 
dependency files for all supported compilers). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added input polling functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Major code restucturing, added system drivers, new framework for input 
handling, timers, keyboard scancode conversion, file access, etc. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added full support for Unicode text, including string manipulation 
functions, a new font format, the textconv utility, a new GUI MSG_UCHAR, 
and a ureadkey() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added variable sized monochrome fonts, replacing the the old 8x8 fixed 
size format. As a result, the GFX_HW_TEXTOUT_FIXED capabilities flag has 
been renamed to GFX_HW_GLYPH. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 New system for accessing video memory, using bmp_select(), bmp_write*(), 
and bmp_unwrite_line(). This is equivalent to the djgpp farptr functions, 
but portable to different platforms. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Drastic reorganisation of directory structure, makefile system, etc. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Enhanced the makedoc utility to simplify adding links and email addresses 
to the docs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a bodge to make the VESA code work with broken S3 Trio64 drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Removed the 386DX vs. 386SX processor detection code (it was sometimes 
crashing). 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 3.11 to 3.12 (Aug 1999)}Changes from 3.11 to 3.12 (Aug 1999)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a few incompatibilities with gcc 2.95. This release is otherwise 
identical to 3.11. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 3.1 to 3.11 (Feb 1999)}Changes from 3.1 to 3.11 (Feb 1999)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Cleaned up a few places where memory wasn't getting freed during the 
system shutdown. A cosmetic detail since the OS will free it for us, but 
it is nice to get these things right. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Alessandro Monopoli added an Italian translation of the system messages. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Henrik Stokseth added code to distinguish between win95 and win98. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Creative Labs have been removed from the THANKS file, because of their 
refusal to release any specs on the SB Live soundcard. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Changed the name of the library. After years of thinking that Allegro was 
a word with no particular meaning, I realised that it is in fact a 
recursive acronym for "Allegro Low Level Game Routines". 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Established a new mailing list for use by the people currently working on 
Allegro. Please send code contributions to this list rather than directly 
to me (Shawn Hargreaves), because this will allow Allegro development to 
continue even if I'm not around or am busy with something else at the 
moment. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Andreas Kluge wrote a driver for Ensoniq Soundscape cards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 More localisation: Swedish message translation by Sven Sandberg, Anton 
Ragnarsson, and Erik Sandberg, Finnish message translation by Antti 
Haapala, and Russian message translation and keyboard mapping by Dmitriy 
Kazimirow. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The midi_out() function now correctly updates the pan/volume/bend 
controller status. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Kester Maddock added a Wingman Warrior joystick driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed some problems with the Sidewinder, Gamepad Pro, and SNES joypad 
drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Changed the SB16 driver to use signed 16 bit output mode, rather than the 
previous unsigned format. Hopefully this will improve compatibility with 
crappy clone hardware. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a new WARNMODE environment switch to the makefile. Allegro 
developers should all set this to get strict warnings, but it will be 
left off by default so that the distributed version will be more 
forgiving about different compiler/libc versions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed problem with reading the top and left positions on digital joystick 
devices. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed (I think, still waiting accurate confirmation on this one :-) 
problem with timers running too fast on some motherboards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed stupid bug where get_align_matrix() wasn't bothering to zero the 
translation vector. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed stupid bug where rotated sprites were coming out upside down in 
mode-X and hi/truecolor modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed bug where dat utility was truncating long filenames to 8.3 format. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Renamed the ChangeLog file to CHANGES, to avoid problems on 8.3 systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Various other minor bugfixes. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 3.0 to 3.1 (Jan 1999)}Changes from 3.0 to 3.1 (Jan 1999)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Changes between the 3.1 beta and final releases: assorted bugfixes, 
Antoine Mathys added a Swiss keyboard mapping, Thomas Wolf added a German 
translation of the system messages. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Changes between the 3.1 alpha and beta releases: assorted bugfixes, FLIC 
routines can now read from datafiles, included rotation optimisations by 
Ivan Baldo. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Cech added support for hot-swapping between a custom keyboard 
layout and the standard US mapping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Neil Townsend improved the accuracy of the timer routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added exlights.c example program, showing one way to do colored lighting 
effects in a hicolor mode (and also because it makes the total number of 
examples a nice round number :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added an afinfo test program, which does the same thing as vesainfo but 
for VBE/AF drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michael Bukin made a lot more portability patches and some bug fixes, 
including some improvements to the FLIC player and a much more rational 
filename handling system. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Removed the chipset-specific SVGA hardware drivers from the main library 
distribution. Instead, these will now be available both as an optional 
addon package, and reformatted as part of the FreeBE/AF project. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added FreeBE/AF extensions support to the Allegro VBE/AF driver (farptr 
access to video memory, and the libc and pmode exports needed for future 
compatibility with the SciTech Nucleus drivers). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a bug with the patterned and translucent vline() function in 15 bit 
color depths. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a NULL pointer dereference bug in the config routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed an order of processing bug that was causing data to be lost when 
calling set_config_file() with the same filename as the current config. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stepan Roh added a Czech translation of the system messages. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ole Laursen added a Danish translation of the system messages. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Ludorowski made a new demo game intro animation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Calin Andrian added 3d polygon timing routines to test.exe. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Cech added grabber support for the 8x8 BIOS font format. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stepan Roh added a Czech keyboard mapping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Renamed the Spanish language translation file from SP to ES. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Calin Andrian added a complete set of truecolor polygon rendering 
routines, with support for MMX and 3DNow! optimisations and a new masked 
lit drawing mode, along with a new polygon clipping function. One minor 
change is that POLYTYPE_FLAT mode is now implemented by calling hline(), 
so it will respond to the current drawing_mode() settings. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Changed the graphics/sound/joystick driver ID numbers from a zero based 
list to a descriptive 4-character string, to make them more readable and 
flexible. Added config functions to read/write data in this format. The 
sound config data is backwardly compatible, but you will need to manually 
update any graphics or joystick driver numbers that are stored in your 
config files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michael Bukin contributed a _lot_ of patches to improve the portability 
and robustness of pretty much the entire library. The only externally 
visible change is that the macros used for declaring hardware driver 
lists have been redesigned to use a more portable syntax, although the 
old syntax is still available as a compatibility macro. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Burton Radons did some more optimisation of the truecolor pixel blending 
functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Martijn Versteegh added a hook mechanism for extending the config file 
system, which can be used to provide extended system status information 
or customisation routines for addon packages. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Redesigned the grabber and dat utilities to support source-code "plugin" 
modules, which can be used to extend the system with additional object 
types, import/export routines, and menu commands. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ivan Baldo added a dithering option to the 15/16 bit color conversion 
routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Kerry High added a SNES joypad driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a font override to the d_text_proc() and d_ctext_proc() GUI 
objects, using the dp2 field to specify a custom font. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michael Tanczos fixed some bugs in the FLIC player. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Cloud Wu optimised the truecolor pixel blending functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Paul Pinault added a French translation of the system error messages. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added a Spanish translation of the system error 
messages, and added a new (but undocumented :-) command line option to 
the demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed clicks in the interpolated sample mixing. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a bug with position_mouse() not updating the mouse_pos variable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a bug in mode-X horizontal scrolling while the timer retrace 
simulator is active. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a language.dat file, which can be used to provide translated 
versions of system strings (eg. error messages), in a similar way to the 
existing keyboard.dat. If you want to use this mechanism from your own 
code, replace all your constant strings with calls to 
get_config_text("string"). This allows them to be translated by including 
a line of the form "string=foreignstring" in the relevant section of 
language.dat. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added an ASCII name field to the keyboard mapping files, in order to make 
the setup program a bit more friendly. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Increased the maximum number of sound channels from 32 to 64. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Modified the DIGMID patch loader to support 16 bit samples, rather than 
just reducing everything to 8 bit. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added an interpolation option to the sample mixer (quality=2). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Salvador Eduardo Tropea added support for proper 16 bit sample mixing 
(quality=1). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Lee Killough added a lower level hook routine to the keyboard handler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Removed floating point code from the DIGMID driver, to avoid potential 
FPU stack overflows. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jim Flynn removed floating point calculations from the AWE32 MIDI driver 
(these could sometimes cause stack overflows). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Salvador Eduardo Tropea improved the datafile system to avoid linking of 
unused code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Romano Signorelli contributed a Bresenham arc plotting function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Thomas Wolf corrected some errors in the German keyboard mapping file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz improved the excolmap example program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg optimised the fixed point trig routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed some silly crash bugs in the joystick code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a "compress" target to the makefile, based on a suggestion 
by Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added dummy bitmap acquire/release functions to allegro.h, for 
compatibility with the Windows version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a cross-reference facility to the Info format documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Martin Fuller fixed an obscure bug in the reading of compressed .bmp 
files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The emergency exit signal handler now correctly restores the previous 
handler, rather than resetting to the default action. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg optimised the create_light_table() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 George Foot fixed a bug when the get_mouse_mickeys() routine was called 
with both parameters pointing to the same value. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Changed the licensing terms from "swapware" to "giftware". See the 
Allegro website for an explanation of the reasons for this change. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added yet more overloaded operators (this time for long and double types) 
to the fix class. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marius Fodor added support for the Sidewinder and Gravis GamePad Pro. 
Many apologies for my taking so long to merge in this code! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stefan Schimanski optimised the reverse blitting routine (for overlapping 
images). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a shift+tab reverse focus movement key to the GUI routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz added a new example showing how to create and 
use a custom color mapping table. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Totally revamped the joystick system (better API and new driver 
structure). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Modified the fix class to work properly with gcc 2.8.0. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a help.txt "how to get tech support" file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The midi_pos variable is now negated, rather than cleared to -1, at the 
end of a MIDI file. This can be used for measuring the length of a file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a rendering hook to the font structure, for use by text addon 
packages. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Improved the VBE/AF text output routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Corrected an error in the way the VBE/AF driver interprets hardware 
cursor colors. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Pedro Cardoso contributed a tweaked 80x80 VGA mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The VBE/AF driver now supports dumb framebuffer drivers as well as 
accelerated ones. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added more accelerator support to the VBE/AF driver (hardware cursors, 
lines, vertical lines, triangles, fixed width text output, and 
opaque/masked blitting from system memory to the screen). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a scare_mouse() function, based on ideas by Martijn Versteegh. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The grabber now stores the "grab from grid" dialog state in allegro.cfg. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sven Sandberg fixed a problem with save_bitmap() widths being rounded 
upwards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Made the _timer_installed flag globally visible. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ove Kaaven added linear framebuffer support to the native mach64 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Erik Sandberg optimised the 8 bit draw_sprite() and draw_trans_sprite() 
functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Mertl fixed a memory leak in the generate_optimized_palette() 
function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added an ALLEGRO_DATE version define to allegro.h. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michael Bukin optimised the line drawing routine and fixed problem with 
the inline asm constraints for fadd()/fsub(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed potential problems caused by a lag between the mouse state 
variables changing and the pointer being redrawn. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Mertl optimised the clipping code for lines, rectangles, and 
circles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Maiolino Carmelo contributed an Italian keyboard mapping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed lockup problems caused by the keyboard LED functions on some 
platforms/hardware. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added new create_video_bitmap() and show_video_bitmap() functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a profile option to the test program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The keyboard handler now correctly updates the BIOS state for the right 
control and alt keys when it shuts down. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a problem that was preventing the DIGMID driver from reading patch 
sets stored in executable appended datafiles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Changed the default sample priority from 255 to 128. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed some problems with virtual screen sizes in the VBE/AF driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added two new example programs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The VBE/AF driver now has full support for hardware accelerated drawing. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added VBE 3.0 support, including new triple buffering routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Wrote a routine to select the sound input source (microphone, line input 
or CD audio). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added proper support for stereo samples. This requires an extra parameter 
to the play_audio_stream() function, so you will need to change any 
programs that use this. I'm very sorry for breaking your old code! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed bugs with the SB16 autodetection and 16 bit sample recording. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added input support to the raw SB MIDI interface driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Wrote a new test program to demonstrate the audio input features. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ove Kaaven added support for MIDI and audio (sampled sound) input. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The pack_fopen() function now understands nested datafiles as directory 
structures, using filenames like "graphics.dat#level1/sprites/zdurgle". 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Charles Mac Donald showed me how to set a 160x120 VGA mode, and more 
reliable 400x* mode-X resolutions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Guilherme Silveira and Theuzifan Sumachingun both independently modified 
the file selector to only list valid drive letters. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Carsten Sorensen added a driver for the ESS AudioDrive soundcard. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Przemek Podsiadly added hicolor versions of the 3d polygon routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ove Kaaven added truecolor support to the native ATI mach64 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Patrick Hogan added a draw_gouraud_sprite() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ben Chauveau added a driver for Tseng ET6000 cards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marco Campinoti added truecolor support to the native Tseng ET4000 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marco Marmulla added 16 bit support to the load_voc() routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added Danish, Swedish, and Norwegian keyboard mappings. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added GUI hook functions for scaling or offsetting the mouse position. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed bug which was causing a lockup when calling set_leds(-1). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michael Bevin optimised the create_trans_table() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 It is now possible to display a mouse pointer without the mouse handler 
needing to be installed. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a create_sample() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Made the _blender_map pixel blending functions and the _mouse_installed, 
_keyboard_installed, and _sound_installed flags globally visible. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added an 8-button joystick mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris La Mantia fixed a minor visual problem with the d_icon_proc(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a Rich Text Format (.rtf) version of the documentation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added postfix increment and decrement operators to the C++ fix class, and 
the unary negation operator is now const-correct. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 3.0 beta to release (Dec 1997)}Changes from 3.0 beta to release (Dec 1997)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The pat2dat utility can now import instruments from AWE32 SoundFont files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Optimised the DIGMID patch loader and fixed a couple of bugs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ove Kaaven fixed the ATI mach64 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The config file can now mention several possible video drivers, using 
lines in the form gfx_driver=x, gfx_driver2=x, etc. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Improved the native SVGA driver helper functions, making it easier to add 
truecolor support to the register level drivers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Double-clicking on a font object in the grabber now allows you to view 
the extended characters as well as normal ASCII. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Markus Oberhumer corrected a potential problem with the Video-7 
initialisation code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Markus Oberhumer, Bitland, and Sormuras all sent me mapping tables for 
the German keyboard layout. Coordination of effort: who needs it? :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Mathieu Lafon improved the French keyboard mapping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed some bugs in the MIDI voice allocation system. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a -k (keep names) option to the dat utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The setup program now uses the ALLEGRO environment variable to locate the 
keyboard.dat file. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a problem with < and > characters in the HTML documentation. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 2.2 to 3.0 beta (Nov 1997)}Changes from 2.2 to 3.0 beta (Nov 1997)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Merged in George's improved instrument parameters for the AWE32 driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The pat2dat utility can now reduce sample data from 16 to 8 bits (saves 
space, and the DIGMID driver only uses 8 bits in any case). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added yet another version of the mouse handler, this time in an attempt 
to make it work more reliably under Windows NT. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Frodo Baggins added a mapping table for Portuguese keyboards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added an external tool "shell" function to the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a "box grab" function to the grabber, which uses a color #255 
bounding box to determine the extent of the sprite to grab. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Santeri Saarimaa added a Finnish keyboard mapping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Finished writing the pat2dat utility, and the DIGMID driver is working a 
lot better now. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Mathieu Lafon added support for the Pause and PrtScr keys, and changed 
the key[] array to a bitfield indicating whether either or both of the 
normal and extended versions of the key are pressed. This remains 
compatible with the "if (key[KEY_*])" syntax, but also allows you to 
distinguish between, for example, the Enter key on the numeric pad and 
the one next to the right shift key. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a bug in the handling of config variables that don't belong to any 
section. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The makefile now tries to detect and warn people about some of the more 
common installation errors. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The HTML version of the documentation now uses a short .htm file 
extension if it is built on a system with LFN disabled. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Keyboard mapping files now only bother saving the entries that differ 
from the default US mapping. This makes the maps a great deal smaller! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Changed the default font and keyboard mapping tables from DOS codepage 
437 to the standard ISO charset (first part of Unicode). If you have made 
a keyboard config using the old codepage it will need to be updated, but 
don't worry, I have a script that can do this very easily. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a bug in the detection of font formats (fixed or proportional) when 
grabbing from a bitmap font. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added an editable loop point to the MIDI player (thanks to George for 
sorting out how to do this...) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Rewrote the mouse handler to track the position itself, using only the 
mickey counters from the int 0x33 driver. Hopefully this will fix the 
problem with buggy Logitech drivers... 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a mouse_pos variable containing both the X and Y values in one 32 
bit location, to allow a single instruction read during tight polling 
loops. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The grabber now supports multiple selection, and has a new "ungrab" 
command that copies from a bitmap object into the scratch buffer (you can 
use this to generate palettes from truecolor images, or to re-grab a 
smaller area from the image). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added multiple selection abilities to the GUI listbox object. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Theuzifan improved the cpu detection for Cyrix chips. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Mathieu Lafon added a French keyboard mapping. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Richard Mitton wrote an example program demonstrating how to fake a 12 
bit truecolor display on an 8 bit card. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Mertl added a routine for generating optimised palettes for a 
specific truecolor image. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Optimised the getr/g/b() functions. Converting between different color 
depths should be much faster now... 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Scott Harrison added code to detect OpenDOS, and use the i_love_bill mode 
if their version of EMM386 is in use. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added some new example programs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The makedoc utility now converts between the DOS and Windows extended 
character sets when producing HTML output files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Ettore Perazzoli made a spectacular optimisation to the linear -> 
mode-X blitting function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a grid option to the dat utility, to specify which region of a 
bitmap you want to grab. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a bug in blitting truecolor bitmaps onto mode-X destinations. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a bug that was preventing the Adlib volume from being changed when 
only MIDI sound drivers were installed. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The grabber can now be run in video modes other than 640x480 (it doesn't 
look very nice in lower resolutions, though :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a new fake scancode for the extended / key (the one on the numeric 
keypad) so that the two keys can be distinguished from each other. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Joaquin Hierro Diaz made a mapping table for Spanish keyboards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The setup utility can now be used to select a keyboard layout and to 
calibrate the joystick, as well as for the sound hardware. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Moved some of the documentation to different locations, so hopefully 
people will now be less likely to miss the faq.txt, and to bring it 
closer in line with the standard GNU distribution format. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Better keyboard configuration system. There is now a proper utility for 
setting up the mapping tables, the tables can be read from external 
files, and it properly supports the alt-gr and accent escape keys. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Menu items can now be disabled, have check marks next to them, and 
support right aligned text eg. for displaying keyboard shortcuts, there 
is a new "void *dp" field in the menu structure, and the click callback 
routines can now use the global pointer "active_menu" to determine which 
option they were called by, if a single routine is shared by several menu 
items. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Peter Palotas added an input callback to the keyboard routines, and event 
flags to the mouse callback. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a -pal option to the dat utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Grzegorz Ludorowski made some new graphics for the demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Moved some code to new files and added a bunch of macros so you can 
remove unused graphics and sound drivers at link time. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fabian Nunez added support for the Logitech Wingman Extreme joystick. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris La Mantia contributed a d_slider_proc() dialog object. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Sean Gugler added a routine for changing the keyboard LED state. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 George Foot added pause and seek functions to the MIDI player. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added the ability to append datafiles (in fact any files at all) onto the 
end of your program executable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Merged in the AWE32 driver. Long live George! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Can now read RLE compressed TGA files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a mouse movement callback function (useful for detecting double 
click events). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Stefan Eilert added support for dual joysticks. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Seymour Shlien contributed a routine for drawing justified text. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Krzysztof Krzyzaniak contributed a loader for .VOC sample files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a rotate_scaled_sprite() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Now supports the Dvorak keyboard layout. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Salvador Eduardo Tropea added a 320x100 VGA mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Implemented translucent and lit sprite and RLE sprite drawing functions 
for the truecolor modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Updated the sound setup utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The dat utility can now output makefile dependencies for automatically 
rebuilding the file when any of the source data changes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed some problems with the RGB <-> HSV conversion functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Truecolor image loading and grabber support. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Phil Frisbie provided some code to detect the CPU type. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Michal Mertl added 24 bit graphics modes. Hurrah! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added functions for playing streams of digital audio data. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris La Mantia contributed a bitmap icon GUI object. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Doug Eleveld added a text box GUI object, plus an improved help system 
for the grabber. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added support for UK and AZERTY keyboard layouts. More can easily be 
added if you send me the appropriate scancode -> ASCII mapping tables... 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added get_align_matrix(), qtranslate_matrix(), and qscale_matrix() 
functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a draw_character() function for using sprites as monochrome pixel 
masks. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 It is now safe to pass the same matrix as both input and output to the 
matrix_mul() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Paul Bartrum contributed some ellipse drawing functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added some callbacks to the MIDI driver, allowing you to hook your own 
code into MIDI notes or marker events. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a function to measure mouse movement in terms of mickeys 
(difference since the last call) as well as in absolute screen 
coordinates. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 VolkerOth made the d_edit_proc objects able to scroll, if the string is 
larger than the available space. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added the ability to distinguish between the left and right Control and 
Alt keys. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fabian Nunez added support for the extra keys on a Microsoft keyboard. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added void *dp2 and void *dp3 fields to the dialog structure. This 
ought not to break any existing code, but will let you store a lot more 
data when creating custom objects. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The packfile functions can now directly open and read from datafile 
member objects, using fake filenames in the form "filename.dat#obj_name". 
This means that all the Allegro file access routines (eg. load_pcx() and 
set_config_file()) can now read from datafile objects as well as separate 
files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added miditest and digitest programs to allow more rigorous testing of 
the sound routines and patch sets, and a vesainfo program to check which 
video modes are available on any given card. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jan Hubicka wrote a faster version of create_rgb_table(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The grabber now scales the bitmap preview if the image is too large to 
fit onto the screen. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jorrit Rouwe provided a new and much cooler set of FM instrument 
definitions for the Adlib MIDI driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a function to load .IBK patch sets for use by the Adlib driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a wrapper allegro/ directory around the contents of the zip file, 
so it can now be safely unzipped into the main djgpp directory. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Richard Mitton added support for 6-button joysticks. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Truecolor (15, 16, and 32 bit) graphics modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Vastly improved sound routines (more flexible API, now supports up to 32 
simultaneous voices on the SB, sample-based MIDI playback driver, can 
reverse samples, volume/pan/pitch sweep effects, MIDI commands can be 
output on the fly as well as played from MIDI files, and lots of other 
goodies). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 It is now possible to update the status of GUI dialogs incrementally from 
your own control loops, with an update_dialog() function, rather than 
completely transferring control to do_dialog(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Compressed files (including grabber datafiles) can now be encypted with a 
password. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a masked_blit() function, that skips zero pixels. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added code to detect being run under Linux DOSEMU, and use the less 
demanding version of the timer code if this is the case. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a standardised configuration mechanism. The format for saved 
joystick calibration information has changed, so existing joystick files 
are no longer valid. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a textprintf() routine, which uses a printf() style format string. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a TexInfo version of the documentation (thanks for the help, 
Francois!) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jonas Petersen added a save_bmp() function, and support for the OS/2 BMP 
format. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 2.11 to 2.2 (Feb 1997)}Changes from 2.11 to 2.2 (Feb 1997)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 TBD/FeR added tweaked 320x600 and 360x600 resolutions to the mode-X 
driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Matthew Bowie added support for 4-button joysticks. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Dave Thomson added RGB <-> HSV conversion functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a 'freeze_mouse_flag' variable, that can be used to lock the 
pointer to a specific position. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a 'key_led_flag' variable, that can be used to prevent the keyboard 
LED's updating in response to the capslock, numlock, and scroll-lock keys. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The midi player now resets midi_pos to -1 when the music finishes playing. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Adrian Oboroc wrote an LBM loader. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fonts can now contain characters above ASCII 127. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris Wigman made a better intro animation for the demo game. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added translucency, color blending, and lighting routines (based on code 
by Owen Embury and ideas by Nathan Albury). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added 3d math and matrix manipulation functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added texture mapped and gouraud shaded polygon drawers. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Tim Gunn contributed code for reading and writing TGA files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed clamping problems with rotating non-circular sprites. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added scrollbars to the GUI listbox object. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Seymour Shlien wrote a bezier spline drawing function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added fixed point fadd() and fsub() functions, which check for overflow. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added pack_fseek() and chunk manipulation functions to the file routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Improved datafile structure and grabber program. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Wrote a utility to convert grabber datafiles into linkable asm code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Salvador Eduardo Tropea improved the keyboard routines (better handling 
of extended scancodes, keyboard LED support, capslock and numlock, and 
alt+numpad input). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed the packfile functions and file selector to work with long 
filenames under win95. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Seymour Shlien contributed a BMP reader. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a hook function to the keyboard code, allowing you to use the GUI 
code without installing the keyboard handler. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a lockup caused by trying to access non-existent floppy drives. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Francois Charton wrote a driver for Paradise graphics cards. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Chris La Mantia contributed a radio button GUI dialog object and added a 
D_DISABLED object flag. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Markus F.X.J. Oberhumer fixed the Video-7 scrolling function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Converted the docs into HTML format. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added code to detect Windows NT. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Mark Habersack added support for newer Trident chipsets. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Did some more work on the VBE/AF driver (it now works, but still doesn't 
support accelerated hardware features). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed bugs in the WAV sample reader and FLIC player. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added special 'windows friendly' mode to the timer code. You can now even 
run demo.exe under Windows 3.1! 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Reorganised directory structure, to allow for a Linux version. The output 
liballeg.a is now found in lib/djgpp. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added support for 8x16 BIOS format fonts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a problem with overflow when rotating large sprites. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed a problem with restoring the text mode screen height after running 
Allegro programs. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 2.1 to 2.11 (Nov 1996)}Changes from 2.1 to 2.11 (Nov 1996)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fixed bug in bank.S. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 install_mouse() now sets the range to (0,0,SCREEN_W,SCREEN_H). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 install_sound() does not automatically set the volume to maximum. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added ++ and -- operators to class fix. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Makefile now copies liballeg.a to lib, and allegro.h to include. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Made a few changes to work under LFN=y (if you use unzip or winzip 
instead of pkunzip). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added manifest. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Clarified installation instructions. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 2.0 to 2.1 (June 1996)}Changes from 2.0 to 2.1 (June 1996)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Mode-X support (thanks to Jonathan Tarbox and Dominique Biesmans for 
suggesting and then helping to implement this). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Compiled sprites. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Jonathan Tarbox contributed an FLI/FLC player. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added patterned drawing modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a vertical retrace interrupt simulator. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 polygon() can now handle concave and self-intersecting shapes. I also 
changed the parameters a bit. Sorry if this breaks your old code, but 
it's more efficient the new way... 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added stretch_sprite(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Wrote a floodfill() routine. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 More flexible palette fade routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added set_volume() to the sound code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 David Calvin wrote a sound setup utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Improved the GUI. Added popup/dropdown menus, joystick input, three 
button alert boxes, better handling of arrow key focus movement, a new 
keyboard shortcut object (d_keyboard_proc()), and '&' markers in strings 
to display keyboard shortcuts. The GUI can also now be used with fonts 
other than the standard 8x8 default, by altering the global 'font' 
pointer. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Fabian Nunez added support for the CH Flightstick Pro joystick (looks 
cool: I want one :-) and 3-button mice. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The keyboard handler now responds to the state of the ctrl and alt keys, 
and there is a new simulate_keypress() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Mark Wodrich added sub-bitmaps, which share their memory with a parent 
bitmap but can be positioned anywhere within it, and have their own 
clipping rectangles. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Mark also modified the mouse driver to double-buffer the pointer (so it 
doesn't flicker any more), and added a set_mouse_sprite_focus() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added set_mouse_range() and set_mouse_speed() functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Thanks (again) to Mark Wodrich, the grabber can now import GRX .FNT files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The grabber can now make backups when saving datafiles, and it only 
writes the datafile headers if their contents have changed, to prevent 
unnecessary recompilation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a text_height() function. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The fixed point inverse sin and inverse cos functions now use lookup 
tables, which makes them a lot faster. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Reorganised the directory structure, added some example programs, and 
improved the documentation. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 2.0 beta to release (March 1996)}Changes from 2.0 beta to release (March 1996)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marcel de Kogel fixed some problems with the MPU-401 driver. It now 
actually works :-) 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marcel also provided some better drum sounds for the Adlib driver. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Inlined the fmul() and fdiv() functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Much faster fsqrt(), taken from Arne Steinarson's fix-float library. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added inline bmp_write_line(), bmp_read_line(), and _putpixel() functions. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The keyboard routines now support the emergency abort sequence 
ctrl+alt+del, and there are signal handlers to make sure Allegro will 
shut down cleanly if your program crashes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Wrote new irq wrappers that can deal with reentrant interrupts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added joystick routines (based on code provided by Jonathan Tarbox and 
Marcel de Kogel). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Moved some functions to different files and juggled things about so the 
linker can do a better job. If you don't use the sound stuff, or don't 
use any graphics functions, now they won't be linked into your executable. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Marcel de Kogel manged to locate my (embarrassingly stupid :-) mistake 
which was preventing the VESA 2.0 linear framebuffer driver from working. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Various other performance enhancements and bug fixes. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Changes from 1.x to 2.0 beta (Jan/Feb 1996)}Changes from 1.x to 2.0 beta (Jan/Feb 1996)\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Dropped all the Borland code. A couple of months ago I ran out of disk 
space, and it was with great satisfaction the I executed the command 
'deltree /y c:\\bc4'. It was a horrible compiler, and I'm glad it's dead. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added SVGA support. As a result it no longer makes sense for 
allegro_init() to put the system into mode 13h, so you will be in text 
mode until you call set_gfx_mode(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added sound code (background MIDI music and sample mixing). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added support for proportional fonts (of any size) as well as the old 8x8 
fixed size ones. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 XOR drawing mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 There is no longer such a thing as a SPRITE structure. The sprite drawing 
code now draws bitmaps onto other bitmaps, which is a much more flexible 
way of doing things. The datafile reader will convert all your old 
sprites to bitmaps as it loads them in, so the only practical difference 
this is likely to make is that the sprite drawing routines can't draw 
opaque sprites any more (but you can use a blit instead). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 show() and get_sprite() no longer exist: use blit() instead. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added flipped and rotated sprite draw routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added bitmap scaling. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added RLE sprites. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 drawsprite() has been renamed to draw_sprite(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 textmode() has been renamed to text_mode(), to avoid conflicts with 
definitions in conio.h. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 All the file access functions have been renamed from the stdio syntax to 
pack_fopen(), pack_getc(), etc, so they can now be mixed with stdio code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added pack_fgets() and pack_fputs(). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The port_callback pointer no longer exists. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Removed polyline() (who ever used it?), and added a polygon(), which 
draws a filled convex polygon with an arbitrary number of vertices. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added do_line() and do_circle() functions, which call a user-supplied 
function for each pixel that needs to be drawn. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added a default keyboard interface to the GUI routines, allowing the 
selection of objects with the arrow keys and <enter>. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added several new GUI messages and flags. In particular there are now 
messages for tracking mouse cursor movement, an idle message, a special 
return value for the MSG_CHAR message which allows an object to override 
the default keyboard handling, and a flag which hides the object. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 There are new GUI routines to centre a dialog on the screen and to alter 
the colors used by the standard alert and file selector dialogs. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The file selector now takes a third parameter specifying which file 
extensions to display. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 The timer routines now have better than millisecond accuracy, and it is 
possible to alter the speed of a user timer callback in realtime (by 
reinstalling it with a different speed value). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Removed the _RGB struct and paltorgb() functions. RGB's are now stored 
directly in the hardware format, with each value in the range 0-63. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added functions to get and set single palette entries as well as entire 
palettes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Added DPMI memory locking code. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Wrote a C++ 'fix' class which overloads a lot of operators, providing an 
easy way to use the fixed point routines. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 There are probably lots of other things that I have forgotten about. 
\par}\pard \li0 \par \par \par \par \par }
