{\rtf\ansi\deff0\widowctrl \f0\fs20 
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green255\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}
{\f2\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}}
{\stylesheet {\widctlpar \f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\widctlpar \f1\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext1 Quotation;}
{\s2\widctlpar \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul \sbasedon0\snext2 Heading 1;}
{\s3\widctlpar \f0\fs24\sb200\keepn\sa200\b \sbasedon0\snext3 Heading 2;}
{\s4\widctlpar \f0\fs20\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \sbasedon0\snext4 Header;}
{\s5\widctlpar \f0\fs24\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \sbasedon0\snext0 TOC 1;}
{\s6\widctlpar \f0\fs20\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \sbasedon0\snext0 Index 1;}}
\par {\s1 \f1\fs18 
\par      ______   ___    ___
\par     /\\  _  \\ /\\_ \\  /\\_ \\
\par     \\ \\ \\L\\ \\\\//\\ \\ \\//\\ \\      __     __   _ __   ___ 
\par      \\ \\  __ \\ \\ \\ \\  \\ \\ \\   /'__`\\ /'_ `\\/\\`'__\\/ __`\\
\par       \\ \\ \\/\\ \\ \\_\\ \\_ \\_\\ \\_/\\  __//\\ \\L\\ \\ \\ \\//\\ \\L\\ \\
\par        \\ \\_\\ \\_\\/\\____\\/\\____\\ \\____\\ \\____ \\ \\_\\\\ \\____/
\par         \\/_/\\/_/\\/____/\\/____/\\/____/\\/___L\\ \\/_/ \\/___/
\par                                        /\\____/
\par                                        \\_/__/     Version 4.2.3
\par 
\par 
\par                 A game programming library.
\par 
\par              By Shawn Hargreaves, Oct 29, 2009.
\par 
\par                 See the AUTHORS file for a
\par                complete list of contributors.
\par }\par \par \par \par #include <std_disclaimer.h>
{\i \par \par "I do not accept responsibility for any effects, adverse or otherwise, 
that this code may have on you, your computer, your sanity, your dog, 
and anything else that you can think of. Use it at your own risk." 
\par}{\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Introduction}Introduction\par }
Allegro is a cross-platform library intended for use in computer games 
and other types of multimedia programming. It was initially conceived on 
the Atari ST, but that platform sadly died during childbirth. After a 
brief stay with Borland C, it was adopted by the fantastic djgpp 
compiler, where it grew to maturity. In the fullness of time it gave 
birth to children of its own, who went to live in such exotic locations 
as DirectX and the X Server, but the entire family is now back together 
again, living in harmony as a single portable entity. How about that for 
a mixture of metaphors? :-) 
\par \par A wide range of extension packages and add-on modules are also available, 
which can be found in the "Library Extensions" section of the Allegro.cc 
website, http://www.allegro.cc/. 
\par \par According to the Oxford Companion to Music, Allegro is the Italian for 
"quick, lively, bright". It is also a recursive acronym which stands for 
"Allegro Low Level Game Routines". 
\par {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Supported platforms}Supported platforms\par }
For instructions on how to install Allegro, how to link your programs 
with it, and any additional information specific to each of the supported 
platforms, see one of the files included in the distribution package: 
\par {\s1 \f1\fs18 
\par    DOS/djgpp         - see docs/build/djgpp.txt
\par    DOS/Watcom        - see docs/build/watcom.txt
\par    Windows/MSVC      - see docs/build/msvc.txt
\par    Windows/MinGW     - see docs/build/mingw32.txt
\par    Windows/Cygwin    - see docs/build/mingw32.txt
\par    Windows/Borland   - see docs/build/bcc32.txt
\par    Linux (console)   - see docs/build/linux.txt
\par    Unix (X11)        - see docs/build/unix.txt
\par    Darwin (X11)      - see docs/build/darwin.txt
\par    BeOS              - see docs/build/beos.txt
\par    QNX               - see docs/build/qnx.txt
\par    MacOS X           - see docs/build/macosx.txt
\par }\par General API information can be found in the main manual, usually referred 
to as docs/txt/allegro.txt, allegro.txt or simply "The Allegro manual" 
throughout this document. The Allegro manual source is available as a set 
of files in the docs/src directory. During the build process of the 
library, these source files will be converted to HTML, TexInfo, and RTF 
formats (among others) and placed in their respective doc/FORMAT 
directory. 
\par \par Information about changes in the API and deprecated features can be found 
in docs/txt/api.txt (also available in HTML, TexInfo, and RTF format as 
part of the Allegro manual). 
\par {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Features}Features\par }
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Cross-platform support for DOS, Windows, Unix, BeOS, QNX and MacOS X 
systems. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Drawing functions including putpixel, getpixel, lines, rectangles, flat 
shaded, gouraud shaded, texture mapped, and z-buffered polygons, circles, 
floodfill, bezier splines, patterned fills, masked, run length encoded, 
and compiled sprites, blitting, bitmap scaling and rotation, 
translucency/lighting, and text output with proportional fonts. Supports 
clipping, and can draw directly to the screen or to memory bitmaps of any 
size. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 DOS graphics drivers for VGA mode 13h, mode-X (twenty three tweaked VGA 
resolutions plus unchained 640x400 Xtended mode), and SVGA modes with 8, 
15, 16, 24, and 32 bit color depths, taking full advantage of VBE 2.0 
linear framebuffers and the VBE/AF hardware accelerator API if they are 
available. Additional video hardware support is available from the 
FreeBE/AF project (http://www.talula.demon.co.uk/freebe/). 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Windows graphics drivers using DirectX in fullscreen and windowed modes, 
plus routines for drawing onto GDI device contexts. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Unix graphics drivers for X, DGA2, fbcon, SVGAlib, VBE/AF, mode-X, and 
standard VGA. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 BeOS graphics drivers using BWindowScreen in fullscreen and BDirectWindow 
in windowed modes. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 MacOS X native graphics drivers using CGDirectDisplay API for direct 
fullscreen gfx access and QuickDraw in a Cocoa window in windowed mode. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Hardware scrolling and triple buffering (where available), mode-X split 
screens, and palette manipulation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 FLI/FLC animation player. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Plays background MIDI music and up to 64 simultaneous sound effects, and 
can record sample waveforms and MIDI input. Samples can be looped 
(forwards, backwards, or bidirectionally), and the volume, pan, pitch, 
etc, can be adjusted while they are playing. The MIDI player responds to 
note on, note off, main volume, pan, pitch bend, and program change 
messages, using the General MIDI patch set and drum mappings. DOS version 
currently supports Adlib, SB, SB Pro, SB16, AWE32, MPU-401, ESS 
AudioDrive, Ensoniq Soundscape, and Windows Sound System. Windows version 
supports WaveOut and DirectSound interfaces and the system MIDI drivers. 
Unix version supports OSS, ESD, and ALSA sound drivers. BeOS version 
supports BSoundPlayer and BMidiSynth interfaces. MacOS X native version 
supports CoreAudio, Carbon Sound Manager and QuickTime Note Allocator 
interfaces. All versions provide software wavetable MIDI playback. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Easy access to the mouse, keyboard, joystick, and high resolution timer 
interrupts, including a vertical retrace interrupt simulator in the DOS 
version. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Routines for reading and writing LZSS compressed files. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Multi-object data files and a grabber utility. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Math functions including fixed point arithmetic, lookup table trig, and 
3d vector/matrix/quaternion manipulation. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 GUI dialog manager and file selector. 
\par \pard \li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 Built-in support for 16-bit and UTF-8 format Unicode characters. 
\par}\pard \li0 {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Copyright}Copyright\par }
Allegro is gift-ware. It was created by a number of people working in 
cooperation, and is given to you freely as a gift. You may use, modify, 
redistribute, and generally hack it about in any way you like, and you do 
not have to give us anything in return. However, if you like this product 
you are encouraged to thank us by making a return gift to the Allegro 
community. This could be by writing an add-on package, providing a useful 
bug report, making an improvement to the library, or perhaps just 
releasing the sources of your program so that other people can learn from 
them. If you redistribute parts of this code or make a game using it, it 
would be nice if you mentioned Allegro somewhere in the credits, but you 
are not required to do this. We trust you not to abuse our generosity. 
\par \par Disclaimer: 
\par \par THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT 
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE 
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, 
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER 
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 
\par {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Configuration}Configuration\par }
Allegro reads information about your hardware from a file called 
allegro.cfg. If this file doesn't exist it will autodetect (ie. guess :-) 
You can write your config file by hand with a text editor, or you can use 
the setup utility program (located in the setup directory). 
\par \par Normally the setup program and allegro.cfg will go in the same directory 
as the Allegro program they are controlling. This is fine for the end 
user, but it can be a pain for a programmer using Allegro because you may 
have several programs in different directories and want to use a single 
allegro.cfg for all of them. If this is the case you can set the 
environment variable ALLEGRO to the directory containing your 
allegro.cfg, and Allegro will look there if there is no allegro.cfg in 
the current directory. 
\par \par The mapping tables used to store different keyboard layouts are stored in 
a file called keyboard.dat. This must either be located in the same 
directory as your Allegro program, or in the directory pointed to by the 
ALLEGRO environment variable. If you want to support different 
international keyboard layouts, you must distribute a copy of 
keyboard.dat along with your program. 
\par \par Various translations of things like the system error messages are stored 
in a file called language.dat. This must either be located in the same 
directory as your Allegro program, or in the directory pointed to by the 
ALLEGRO environment variable. If you want to support non-English versions 
of these strings, you must distribute a copy of language.dat along with 
your program. 
\par \par Under Unix, BeOS and MacOS X, the config file routines also check for 
~/allegro.cfg, ~/.allegrorc, /etc/allegro.cfg, and /etc/allegrorc, in 
that order, and the keyboard and language files can be stored in your 
home directory or in /etc/. If under MacOS X, the application bundle 
Contents/Resources directory, if any, is also scanned first. 
\par \par See docs/txt/allegro.txt for details of the config file format. 
\par {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Notes about sound}Notes about sound\par }
The DIGMID wavetable driver uses standard GUS format .pat files, and you 
will need a collection of such instruments before you can use it. This 
can either be in the standard GUS format (a set of .pat files and a 
default.cfg index), or a patches.dat file as produced by the pat2dat 
utility. You can also use pat2dat to convert AWE32 SoundFont banks into 
the patches.dat format, and if you list some MIDI files on the command 
line it will filter the sample set to only include the instruments that 
are actually used by those tunes, so it can be useful for getting rid of 
unused instruments when you are preparing to distribute a game. See the 
Allegro website for some links to suitable sample sets. 
\par \par The DIGMID driver normally only loads the patches needed for each song 
when the tune is first played. This reduces the memory usage, but can 
result in a longish delay the first time you play each MIDI file. If you 
prefer to load the entire patch set in one go, call the 
load_midi_patches() function. 
\par \par The CPU sample mixing code can support between 1 and 64 voices, going up 
in powers of two (ie. either 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, or 64 channels). By 
default it provides 8 digital voices, or 8 digital plus 24 MIDI voices (a 
total of 32) if the DIGMID driver is in use. But the more voices, the 
lower the output volume and quality, so you may wish to change this by 
calling the reserve_voices() function or setting the digi_voices and 
midi_voices parameters in allegro.cfg. 
\par {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Contact info}Contact info\par }
The latest version of Allegro can always be found on the Allegro 
homepage, http://alleg.sourceforge.net/. 
\par \par There are three mailing lists for Allegro-related discussion, each with a 
slightly different purpose. 
\par {\li400 \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 [AL] - Allegro main - 
http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/alleg-main/.\par \pard \li400 
\par \par This list is for any kind of discussion about Allegro, questions about 
Allegro, reports of problems with Allegro, suggestions for new 
features, announcements of programs written using Allegro, etc. 
General rule: if it has to do with Allegro, you can post it here. If 
not, go somewhere else (for example comp.os.msdos.djgpp, comp.lang.c, 
or the online forums at http://www.allegro.cc/). 
\par \par \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 [AD] - Allegro developers - 
http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/alleg-developers/.\par \pard \li400 
\par \par This list is for the people currently working on Allegro, who use it to 
coordinate their efforts. You can use this address if you need to 
contact the developers directly, for example to submit some new code 
that you have written or to report a bug. 
\par \par \par Unlike the other lists, we will be really rude to people who post 
inappropriate material here, so please don't do that! Do not send 
tech-support questions to this list. Don't post bug reports here unless 
you are 100% certain they aren't your fault (if you are in any doubt, 
use the main Allegro list instead, which is read by most of the same 
people who are subscribed here). 
\par \par \par The Allegro development is a completely open process, and everyone is 
welcome to drop by, have a listen, and start contributing code patches. 
This list is for working rather than talking, though, so please don't 
do anything that might get in our way. 
\par \par \par {\pntext\f2\fs16 \'b7\tab}
{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnfs16\pnindent250{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\fi-250\li400 [Alleg5] - Allegro 5 - 
http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/alleg-bigfive.\par \pard \li400 
\par \par This list was once available for discussing the next major version of 
Allegro, when it was too noisy to do so on [AD]. This is no longer the 
case so the list has been shut down. However, its archives are still 
valuable. 
\par}\par To subscribe to one of the three lists, simply go to it's web page and use 
the online forms to subscribe yourself. You can remove yourself from a 
list going to the same page above, which can be used to remind you of your 
password too, in case you have forgotten it. 
\par \par To send a message to one of the lists, write to 
alleg-main@lists.sourceforge.net or 
alleg-developers@lists.sourceforge.net. You don't need to be subscribed to 
these mailing lists before you can post there, but it is a good idea to 
subscribe in order to see the replies. 
\par \par Before posting tech-support questions to the Allegro list, please take a 
moment to read the guidelines in docs/txt/help.txt. See docs/txt/ahack.txt 
for information about the style of code we use, and how to create your 
patches. 
\par \par If you want to search through the archives of any of those mailing lists, 
you will have to check the available options at 
http://alleg.sourceforge.net/maillist.html. 
\par \par Please don't send messages in HTML format. The increased size places an 
unnecessary load on the server, and many subscribers have a hard time 
reading these posts. 
\par \par Please do not crosspost between these lists. Choose the most appropriate 
one for your message, and then send it only to that list. 
\par \par Please don't send large binary attachments to any of the lists, they will 
be rejected by the size limit filter, which is set to 100KB for the 
developers mailing list, and 40KB for the others. Upload your files to a 
website and then post the URL, or if you can't do that, post an 
announcement asking people to write to you privately, and then send the 
file by individual email to whoever responded. 
\par \par Please use English in your messages. You could eventually post messages in 
whatever language you prefer, but that would terribly limit the chances of 
getting a useful answer. 
\par \par Remember that the RFC 1855: netiquette guidelines 
(http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1855.txt) describes other general 
guidelines you should follow as a correct internet user (in mailing lists 
and other places as well), and provides more verbose descriptions and 
explanations about why you should follow the above guidelines. 
\par \par One of the important guidelines you should be aware of is how to quote 
correctly the message you are replying to. The previous RFC doesn't really 
explain how to do it, so you might want to read the document "How do I 
quote correctly in Usenet?" at 
http://www.netmeister.org/news/learn2quote.html. Quoting correctly is 
easier to say than to do, especially for users of Microsoft Outlook. If 
you are such a user, you can help yourself using the Outlook-QuoteFix 
extension written by Dominik Jain, which you can find at 
http://home.in.tum.de/~jain/software/outlook-quotefix/. 
\par \par }
