{\rtf\ansi\deff0\widowctrl \f0\fs20 
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green255\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}
{\f2\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}}
{\stylesheet {\widctlpar \f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\widctlpar \f1\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext1 Quotation;}
{\s2\widctlpar \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul \sbasedon0\snext2 Heading 1;}
{\s3\widctlpar \f0\fs24\sb200\keepn\sa200\b \sbasedon0\snext3 Heading 2;}
{\s4\widctlpar \f0\fs20\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \sbasedon0\snext4 Header;}
{\s5\widctlpar \f0\fs24\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \sbasedon0\snext0 TOC 1;}
{\s6\widctlpar \f0\fs20\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \sbasedon0\snext0 Index 1;}}
\par {\qc {\f0\fs48 {\b {\i \par The Hall of Fame\par}\par}\par}\par}\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \par \pard \par {\i \par We hope to have remembered everyone who ought to be mentioned here. If your 
name should be included, accept our apologies, and please tell us so we can 
correct the oversight! 
\par}{\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Contributors}Contributors\par }
Acho A. Tang (acho at telus dot net).\par 
Added a Sidewinder Precision Pro joystick driver to the DOS port. 
\par \par Adrian Oboroc (doba at corefx dot com).\par 
Wrote the LBM loader. 
\par \par aj.\par 
Reported many problems, suggested a lot of improvements to the 
documentation, added AMD64/IA64/SSE3 detection code, added DirectX 8 and 9 
detection to the Windows port, added MSVC7 specific options to the makefile, 
cleaned up a C99-ism in makedoc, fixed a beep when alt+character was pressed 
in windowed mode in Windows and made TARGET_ARCH_EXCL also work with MSVC. 
\par \par Alex Demko (alex_demko at mbnet dot mb dot ca).\par 
Suggested lots of improvements to the datafile system and provided code 
for handling the 8x16 BIOS font format. 
\par \par Alessandro Monopoli (almonopo at tin dot it).\par 
Added the Italian translation of the system messages. 
\par \par Andreas Kluge (bitland at aol dot com).\par 
Wrote the Ensoniq Soundscape driver and fixed division bugs in the fix 
class. 
\par \par Andrei Ellman (ae-a-alleg2 at wacko dot wackonet dot net).\par 
Contributed the polygon_z_normal() function, suggested some additions to 
the docs, updated the Cygwin section in docs/build/mingw32.txt, got 
Allegro for MSVC to build with Cygwin, improved the performance of the 
hsv_to_rgb() function, corrected a rounding issue in hsv_to_rgb(), 
improved the exrgbhsv example and the Windows screensaver, fixed problems 
in the MSVC makefile when using Cygwin and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Andrew Cottrell (andrewc at dbworld dot net dot au).\par 
Changed the grabber to use a more robust (locale-independent) date format. 
\par \par Andrew Ellem (krand at ican dot net).\par 
Wrote the original version of the digital audio streaming code. 
\par \par Andrew Geers (andy at geerswj dot clara dot net).\par 
Added the -ppassword and -nosound options to the grabber, scrolling 
support in the image viewer and the flipped rotated sprite routines. 
\par \par Andy Goth (unununium at openverse dot com).\par 
Made the gfx_card config variable more flexible, added the 256x256 tweaked 
VGA mode, wrote the d_text_list_proc() dialog object and fixed the 
constructor support in dat2s on Unix. 
\par \par Angelo Mottola (a dot mottola at libero dot it).\par 
Added the BeOS joystick, MIDI and windowed graphics drivers, added mouse 
wheel, display switching and close button support for BeOS, wrote the 
DGA2 driver and close button support for X, contributed the bfixicon 
utility, added triple buffering support, a BWindow-based windowed driver 
and a fullscreen overlay driver to the BeOS port and reorganized its gfx 
subsystem. And, oh, contributed the QNX and MacOS X ports too. 
\par \par Annie Testes (annie at kezako dot net).\par 
Added font_height, render_char, char_length hooks to FONT_VTABLE, fixed 
several glitches in the unicode support, added a pack_fdopen() function, 
caught a misordering in the X system shutdown, fixed some device name 
strings, lifted several hardcoded length limitations in the configuration 
routines, added a mouse driver based on the event interface (EVDEV) to the 
Linux port, fixed numerous bugs and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Anthony 'Timorg' Cassidy.\par 
Made d_menu_proc fill up its assigned area with the gui_bg_color. 
\par \par Antoine Mathys (mmathys at bluewin dot ch).\par 
Added the Swiss keyboard mapping. 
\par \par Anton Ragnarsson (anton dot ragnarsson at swipnet dot se).\par 
Contributed the Swedish keyboard mapping table. 
\par \par Antti Haapala (ztane at lyseo dot edu dot ouka dot fi).\par 
Fixed the setup program to display the right frequency list for each 
type of soundcard and contributed the Finnish translation of the system 
messages. 
\par \par Antti Koskipaa (antti dot koskipaa at nic dot fi).\par 
Wrote the DOS driver for WSS (Windows Sound System) cards. 
\par \par Arne Steinarson (arst at ludd dot luth dot se).\par 
The fixed point square root routine came from his fix-float library. 
\par \par Arthur Huillet (email unknown).\par 
Fixed a typo in the docs. 
\par \par Attila Szilagyi (attilabox at hotmail dot com).\par 
Fixed SVGAlib horizontal scrolling. 
\par \par Ben Chauveau (bendomc at worldnet dot fr).\par 
Added support for Tseng ET6000 cards (now available as part of the 
FreeBE/AF project). 
\par \par Ben Darnell (bdarnell at vnet dot net).\par 
Put together the 2.11 release of Allegro while I was away from the net 
and wrote the original version of the Allegro FAQ. 
\par \par Ben Davis (entheh at users dot sf dot net).\par 
Added set_volume_per_voice(), made silent voices continue playing, 
fixed other minor bugs in the mixer, fixed a bug in create_rgb_table(), 
adapted polygon functions to handle two coincident vertices, added the 
set_window_close_button() and set_window_close_hook() framework, added 
support for timers with parameters under Windows, corrected several 
compilation warnings and documented the behaviour of pack_feof(). 
\par \par Benjamin Joel Stover (stovertech at intellisys dot net).\par 
Wrote the initial version of the fullscreen X-Windows graphics driver. 
\par \par Benny Colyn (email unknown).\par 
Added a Dutch translation. 
\par \par Bertrand Coconnier (bcoconni at club-internet dot fr).\par 
Modified 3D polygones routines for subpixel and subtexel accuracy, made 
speed enhancements in these routines, fixed blending in C version of 
atex_lit scanline functions, added scanline subdivisions in C scanline 
functions and Z-buffer polygon functions and merged in Calin Andrian's 
P3D library. 
\par \par Bobby Ferris (baf at bafsoft dot com).\par 
Added the SciTE API output format to makedoc and temporarily hosted 
Allegro's SVN repository while SourceForge's SVN was in beta. 
\par \par Burton Radons (loth at gec dot net).\par 
Optimised the truecolor pixel blending function, converted the blenders 
to the new single-handler format, and added the range of 
Photoshop-compatible blender functions. 
\par \par Calin Andrian (calin at ibd dot dbio dot ro).\par 
Wrote the truecolor, MMX, 3DNow!, masked lit mode, translucent and 
Z-buffered polygon rendering routines, the clip3d_f() function and also 
the scanline sorting functions for 3D scene rendering, and his P3D 
addon library was merged in. 
\par \par Calvin French (frenchc at home dot com).\par 
Added the -w (always update) switch to dat.exe. 
\par \par Carsten Schmidt (email unknown).\par 
Wrote the the initial version of the Linux GGI driver. 
\par \par Carsten Sorensen (csorensen at ea dot com).\par 
Wrote the the ESS AudioDrive soundcard driver. 
\par \par Catatonic Porpoise ().\par 
Added OpenBSD detection, fixed an issue with executable rights not set 
on the memory for the i386 stretcher on UNIX systems, and fixed the 
documentation for stretch_sprite. 
\par \par Cloud Wu (cloudwu at 263 dot net).\par 
Optimised the truecolor pixel blending functions. 
\par \par Charles Bilyue (Esaelon at aol dot com).\par 
Optimized the i386 blitters and suggested to not force yielding timeslice 
with non-blocking menus. 
\par \par Charles Wardlaw (kattkieru at yahoo dot com).\par 
Fixed warnings with gcc 4 on MacOS X and helped resolve a problem with 
setAppleMenu under Tiger. 
\par \par Chris Graham (chris_graham at postmark dot net).\par 
Suggested to add a new flag for Windows NTFS compressed files. 
\par \par Chris Jones (cj at jibblers dot plus dot com).\par 
Fixed a bug with 16-bit samples loading, worked around a problem with DOS 
file attributes under Win2k, let the MIDI player pass controller events to 
the raw player by default, made the MIDI player handle the 'All Sound Off' 
controller message, added support for the bitfield compressed BMP image 
format, fixed the behavior of numeric keys when NumLock is on, and fixed 
loading of certain .wav files. 
\par \par Chris La Mantia (celamantia at home dot com).\par 
Wrote the d_radio_proc(), d_icon_proc(), and d_slider_proc() dialog 
objects, added the D_DISABLED flag, improved the GUI handling of 
different font heights, and added the right aligned text functions. 
\par \par Chris Robinson (crobin_99 at yahoo dot com).\par 
Wrote the fixed point clip3d() function, improved the performance of the 
DIGMID driver, implemented the digmid_set_pan function, rewrote part of 
the Allegro mixer, made the Allegro mixer the default one in Windows, 
improved the threaded UNIX timer code, helped improve responsiveness under 
X11, tweaked tests/play.c, added drawing primitives and video bitmap locking 
to the X11 port and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Christer Sandberg (christer dot sandberg at mdh dot se).\par 
Made dat2c work better with ISO C90 compilers, made dat2c correctly detect 
the native line ending, fixed a problem with the include guard generated 
by dat2c, fixed a bug in the 24-bit graphics code of fixup_datafile(), 
fixed a problem with Electric Fence. 
\par \par Christian Schueler (cschueler at gmx dot de).\par 
Changed the optimisation settings for better performance. 
\par \par Daniel Nilsson (daniel7 at algonet dot se).\par 
Enlarged the starfield in exstars, and fixed an incorrect range in 
exlights. 
\par \par Daniel Schlyder (daniel at bitblaze dot com).\par 
Fixed problems with get_executable_name() under Windows, another one with 
set_window_title() under BeOS, potentially unsafe constructs in the 
Windows code, the installall makefile target under Windows, added 
set_allegro_resource_path(), fixed make uninstall with mingw make, 
added ALLEGRO_LIB_BUILD flag for gcc variants not using configure, 
fixed a bunch of warnings in MinGW and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Daniel Verkamp (i_am_drv at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Added a MIDI input driver to the Windows port anda dded support for .rmi 
MIDI files to the MIDI loader. 
\par \par Dark Nation (email unknown).\par 
Restored support for old-style encrypted packfiles, which had been removed 
in 4.1.18. 
\par \par David A. Capello (dacap at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Made dotted_rect() avoid bank switches, fixed a problem with lost GUI 
mouse clicks, made d_menu_proc() steal/return focus when activated then 
deactivated, fixed a problem with submenus, fixed a bug with FLI frames 
containing odd-sized chunks, made makedoc write sub-section headings 
for .txt output, made override_config_file also be used for writing to 
the config file and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par David Kuhling (dkuelhin at hell1og dot be dot schule dot de).\par 
Optimised the fsqrt() routine, and added fhypot(). 
\par \par Dave Physics.\par 
Some documentation fixes. 
\par \par Dave Thomson (gameskitchen at geocities dot com).\par 
Added the RGB <-> HSV conversion routines, the autocrop function to 
the grabber and wrote the 3d starfield example program (exstars.exe). 
\par \par David Calvin (calvid at rpi dot edu).\par 
Wrote the original version of the sound setup utility. 
\par \par David Cullen (dcullen7 at bellsouth dot net).\par 
Added multiple bullets and extra lives to the demo game. 
\par \par Deepak T (coolbool at gmx dot net).\par 
Fixed clipping in three C sprite drawing routines. 
\par \par Dennis Busch (email unknown).\par 
Fixed a bug in d_clear_proc, fixed a Unicode bug in the mode selector, 
and fixed the short description of add_clip_rect. 
\par \par Dmitriy Kazimirow (mariann at mail dot ru).\par 
Provided the Russian keyboard mapping and message translation files. 
\par \par Dominique Biesmans (Dominique dot Biesmans at ping dot be).\par 
Wrote the mode-X version of draw_sprite() and the mode-X <-> linear 
blitting functions. 
\par \par Doug Eleveld (D dot J dot Eleveld at anest dot azg dot nl).\par 
Wrote the d_textbox_proc() dialog object and the new grabber help system. 
\par \par Dustin Dettmer (dustin at mize dot org).\par 
Spotted a typo in save_bitmap. 
\par \par Eduard Bloch (edi at gmx dot de).\par 
Fixed a freeze caused by the ESD detection code, fixed a bad behaviour 
of the config routines and suggested better ways to find the path to 
the executable on Unix. 
\par \par Edward Boone (Lucien dot Boone at ping dot be).\par 
Provided scancode mapping tables for the AZERTY keyboard layout. 
\par \par Elias Pschernig (elias at users dot sf dot net).\par 
Added a COLORCONV_KEEP_TRANS mode, contributed the wfixicon utility, 
contributed several enhancements to the grabber, fixed menu dimensions in 
the GUI engine, fixed the get_camera_matrix*() functions, added support 
for the CHM and Devhelp documentation formats, fixed a bug in midi_seek(), 
made load_datafile_object() load the object properties, made the GUI code 
scare the mouse more intelligently and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Eric Botcazou (ebotcazou at libertysurf dot fr).\par 
Made the DGA driver work better in 8bpp and 32bpp modes, improved the 
DirectX windowed driver and Windows graphics subsystem, partially 
revamped the Unicode API and added uszprintf(), added file_select_ex(), 
the unified al_find*() interface, an Unicode example, a new filetest, 
rewrote the fixdll script, revamped the Borland C++ build process, fixed 
lots of bugs and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Erik Sandberg (eriksandberg at geocities dot com).\par 
Optimised the 8 bit draw_sprite() and draw_trans_sprite() functions and 
helped with the Swedish message translation. 
\par \par Erno Schwetter.\par 
Fixed some bugs in the Linux console port and fixed a long-standing bug in 
the polygon() routine. 
\par \par Etienne Vouga.\par 
Fixed a bug with the reset_controllers MIDI command. 
\par \par Ettore Perazzoli (ettore at comm2000 dot it).\par 
Optimised the linear -> mode-X blitting function. 
\par \par Evert Glebbeek (eglebbk at dds dot nl).\par 
Put set_gfx_mode on a diet, added a config entry for specifying the card 
to be used for GFX_AUTODETECT_WINDOWED, added a '-fullscreen' switch to 
the grabber, cleaned up the grabber/plugins code, added various commands 
to the grabber, added the detection of SunOS/Solaris, added configure 
options for x86 processor optimisations on Unix systems, added the support 
for relative filenames and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par EvilTypeGuy (eviltypeguy at icculus dot org).\par 
Cleaned up and fixed the RPM spec file for RedHat 9. 
\par \par Fabian Nunez (faybs at iafrica dot com).\par 
Added support for the CH Flightstick Pro and Logitech Wingman Extreme 
joysticks, 3-button mice, and the extended keys on a Microsoft keyboard. 
\par \par Fabrizio Gennari (faybs at iafrica dot com).\par 
Contributed the DB9 and TurboGraFXoystick drivers. 
\par \par Francis Devereux.\par 
Made the OS X port compile on Mac OS X 10.6. 
\par \par Francisco Pires (fmlvp at hotmail dot com).\par 
Added an FPS counter and an option to disable vsync to the excamera 
example. 
\par \par Francois Charton (deef at pobox dot oleane dot com).\par 
Wrote the Paradise graphics driver (now available as part of the 
FreeBE/AF project), improved the VGA palette setting code and helped 
with the TexInfo conversion of the docs. 
\par \par Frodo Baggins (l41273 at alfa dot ist dot utl dot pt).\par 
Made the Portuguese keyboard mapping. 
\par \par Garret Thomson (g at sirsonic dot com).\par 
Wrote the music used in the demo game. 
\par \par George Foot (gfoot at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Did a great deal of work on the Linux console version, wrote the AWE32 
driver, added the MIDI pause/seek functions, provided the basis of the 
SoundFont reader used in the pat2dat utility, fixed the C fceil() 
function, added the ffloor() function and added non-FM support to the 
OSS MIDI driver. 
\par \par Gorka Olaizola (olsago at jet dot es).\par 
Added the Redhat RPM .spec file. 
\par \par Grady Martin (shadygrady at budweiser dot com).\par 
Fixed a bug in the handling of %n in the printf style text functions, added 
a move command to the grabber and standardised some of the grabber dialog 
boxes. 
\par \par Greg Hackmann (hacker at ididitmyway dot com).\par 
Contributed the Borland C++ Builder port. 
\par \par Greg Lee (greg at ling dot lll dot hawaii dot edu).\par 
Pointed out that Linux joystick driver should read all events. 
\par \par Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz (gradha at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Wrote several of the example programs, suggested the "compress" makefile 
target, translated the docs and system error messages into Spanish, 
suggested the idea of embedding the setup utility into other programs, 
wrote some documentation and corrected the .texi generation to improve 
texi2dvi output, improved the makedoc utility and contributed a new doc 
format, added reload_config_texts() and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Grzegorz Godlewski (email unknown).\par 
Contributed a Polish localization patch, and added support for lower and 
upper altgr tables. 
\par \par Grzegorz Ludorowski (pajonk at ajax dot umcs dot lublin dot pl).\par 
Wrote several of the example programs, and made the intro animation and 
graphics for the demo game. 
\par \par Guilherme Silveira (thedarkage at geocities dot com).\par 
Modified the file selector to only list valid drive letters. 
\par \par Gunter Ladwig (gladwig at iname dot com).\par 
Wrote the OS/2 detection routines and added the three-button mouse 
emulation. 
\par \par Hans de Goede.
Fixed a problem with dynamically generated stretcher code not being 
properly marked as executable on Linux, fixed a busy wait in the X11 vsync 
simulation, added a fullscreen driver for X11 which does not need XVidMode 
extension, fixed a problem where switching to fullscreen mode under X11, 
made digmid work with absolute pathes in patches.cfg, and fixed a problem 
with the Alsa driver on big endian systems. 
\par \par Harshavardhana Reddy N (nharsha at gmail dot com).\par 
Added a Kannada greeting to exunicod. 
\par \par Haruhiko Okumura (email unknown).\par 
Wrote the original version of the LZSS compression code. 
12-2-404 Green Heights, 580 Nagasawa, Yokosuka 239, JP. 
\par \par Hein Zelle (hein at icce dot rug dot nl).\par 
Revamped the cross-compilation section of docs/build/mingw32.txt, 
clarified a requirement when cross-compiling from Linux, reworked the 
paragraph on the location of shared libraries under Unix in the docs and 
added a FAQ entry on the same subject. 
\par \par Henrik Schmidt (hbs at ks dot informatik dot uni-kiel dot de).\par 
Found a workaround for the switching problem under Windows, made gcc pass 
'-h' instead of '-soname' to the linker and replaced '-L' by '-h' in shell 
comparisons so as not to break on Solaris. 
\par \par Henrik Stokseth (hensto at online dot no).\par 
Contributed a native Mingw32 port which can also be built with a 
cross-compiler and the Cygwin compiler, much improved OS detection, added 
get_gfx_mode_list() and methods for querying the VGA, Mode-X, Xtended, 
VESA, VBE/AF and DirectX drivers for a list of possible GFX modes, 
rewrote the mode-selector to use get_gfx_mode_list(), reworked the build 
system many times and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Hrvoje Ban (spoofer255 at gmail dot com).\par 
Pointed out a bug in the mode selector, fixed several double ;'s, fixed 
ASSERT() in Windows, helped write a documentation section about common 
pitfalls, and added the create_datafile_index function. 
\par \par Igor Gnip (gnipi at mindnever dot org).\par 
Removed the requirements for fileutils on DOS/Windows platforms and added 
the detection of MSYS to the MingW32 port. 
\par \par Isaac Cruz (icruzbal at teleline dot es).\par 
Fixed a bug with accelerated drawing onto sub bitmaps of DirectDraw 
surfaces, added the GFX_DIRECTX_WIN driver, fixed a Windows sub bitmap 
locking bug, added Windows desktop_color_depth and yield_timeslice 
routines, and made extensive modifications to other aspects of the 
Windows code. 
\par \par Ivan Baldo (lubaldo at adinet dot com dot uy).\par 
Wrote the 15/16 bit dithering code and optimised the sprite rotation 
routines. 
\par \par Jaime Moreno (daviangel at hotmail dot com).\par 
Helped track down a problem with dependency generation in MacOS X. 
\par \par Jakub Wasilewski (krajzega at meditech dot pl).\par 
Fixed a bug when loading greyscale TGA images. 
\par \par James Arthur (jaa at arfa dot clara dot net).\par 
Documented the Photoshop-style truecolor blender routines. 
\par \par James Hyman (frooge at mindless dot com).\par 
Added support for quoted strings in the get_config_argv() function and 
the dithering code for paletted images. 
\par \par James Lohr (email unknown).\par 
Fixed a problem with mouse acceleration in fullscreen modes under Windows. 
\par \par James Ponder (james at squish dot net).\par 
Suggested to remove the DJGPP makefile from the Unix tar archive and 
clarified a requirement when cross-compiling from Linux. 
\par \par Jan Bruun Andersen (jba-dk at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Fixed a compilation problem with Cygwin. 
\par \par Jan Hubicka (hubicka at horac dot ta dot jcu dot cz).\par 
Vastly improved the speed of the create_rgb_table() function. 
\par \par Jason Wilkins (fenix at io dot com).\par 
Wrote the quaternion math routines and contributed the BeOS port. 
\par \par Javier Gonzalez (xaviergonz at hotmail dot com).\par 
Corrected mouse movement speed, made allegro_message() use title from 
set_window_title(), added close button hook support and improved 
switching in Windows, fixed bad clearing of subbitmaps, made bug 
reports and suggestions for improvement, contributed bidirectional 
looping support, backward playing support and bugfixes for the 
DirectSound driver and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Jeff Mitchell (email unknown).\par 
Fixed the location of grabber.txt in the spec file. 
\par \par Jeremiah Blanchard (squirminworm at yahoo dot com).\par 
Contributed modifications in order for Allegro to build on Darwin/MacOS X 
and updated the build instructions for this new port afterwards. 
\par \par Jim Flynn (jflynn at pacbell dot net).\par 
Removed floating point calculations from the AWE32 MIDI driver. 
\par \par Jim Grainger (Grainger_Jim/world_europe_samuro_WYN-CTV at samsung dot co dot kr).\par 
Spotted a broken link in the docs and updated it. 
\par \par Jiri Gabriel (email unknown).\par 
fixed loading of multiple ranges in a single bitmap with txt fonts and helped 
fix an off-by-one mistake for the last glyph in extract_font_range. 
\par \par Joaquin Hierro Diaz (Joaquin dot Hierro dot Diaz at fresno dot csic dot es).\par 
Made the mapping table for Spanish keyboards. 
\par \par Joerg Rueppel (sharky-x at gmx dot net).\par 
Added more flexible wildcard matching for object names in dat.exe and 
the find_datafile_object() function. 
\par \par Johan Peitz (d98peitz at dtek dot chalmers dot se).\par 
Fixed and enhanced the Win32 joystick driver, and contributed the 'Alex 
the Allegator' icon. 
\par \par Johan Venter (leonjventer at bigpond dot com).\par 
Fixed some problems with the RSXNT and Mingw32 makefiles. 
\par \par John Holden (johnh at psych dot usyd dot edu dot au).\par 
Fixed a bug in load_wav(). 
\par \par John Utz (Johnut01 at noa dot nintendo dot com).\par 
Corrected a wrong assumption about the VRAM layout in the Linux 
framebuffer console driver. 
\par \par Jon Rafkind (workmin at ccs dot neu dot edu).\par 
Added more ASSERTs to the code, implemented the Cohen-Sutherland clipping 
algorithm for the line() function and supplied an m4 macro for allegro. 
Also fixed a problem with allegro-config. 
\par \par Jonas Petersen (joXonoX at berlin dot snafu dot de).\par 
Added the save_bmp() function and support for the OS/2 BMP format. 
\par \par Jonathan Tarbox (jonattar at rocketmail dot com).\par 
Wrote the mode-X setup code, the FLI/FLC player and contributed parts of 
the joystick handler. 
\par \par Jorrit Rouwe (j dot rouwe at cpedu dot rug dot nl).\par 
Provided a new and much cooler set of FM instrument definitions for the 
Adlib MIDI driver. 
\par \par Jose Antonio Luque (skylord at LatinMail dot com).\par 
Improved the Windows joystick driver, and optimised the 16-bit blit() and 
masked_blit() functions. 
\par \par Joshua Heyer (joshua_heyer at yahoo dot com).\par 
Wrote the original version of the OSS sound driver. 
\par \par J. P. Morris (email unknown).\par 
Fixed a bug rest_callback under unix. 
\par \par Julien Cugnière (jcugniere at free dot fr).\par 
Improved the support for non-blocking menus, fixed a bug related to the 
retrieval of the inital volume when no primary buffer was present under 
Windows, fixed the crash on exit with the aRts sound driver, added an 
X11 message box for allegro_message under X11 and fixed a crash in the GUI 
when a dialog was opened while a menu was still open. 
\par \par Kalle Toivonen (allegro at korpiq dot iki dot fi).\par 
Fixed a bug in _parallelogram_map(). 
\par \par Keith Gerdes (kwg at softhome dot net).\par 
Fixed the DirectDraw overlay mode driver. 
\par \par Kerry High (khigh01 at umr dot edu).\par 
Contributed the SNES joypad driver. 
\par \par Kester Maddock (dmaddock at xtra dot co dot nz).\par 
Wrote the Wingman Warrior joystick driver. 
\par \par Knut Pape (Knut_Pape at t-online dot de).\par 
Improved the Mingw32 readme file. 
\par \par Kronoman X (kronoman_x at hotmail dot com).\par 
Added a FAQ entry about the conflict between Allegro headers and the C++ 
'using' directive. 
\par \par Krzysztof Krzyzaniak (eloy at arrakis dot cs dot put dot poznan dot pl).\par 
Wrote the load_voc() function. 
\par \par Laurence Withers (lwithers at users dot sf dot net).\par 
Added destroy hook to font structure, worked on const-correctness 
throughout the library, implemented the new FONT structure, made 
some modules avoid linking dependencies, contributed the dat2c 
utility, added two fixed point ratios for converting to and from 
radians, added a '-windowed' switch to the grabber, added a new text 
API and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Lee Killough (email unknown).\par 
Added the low-level hook routine to the keyboard handler and fixed a 
couple of bugs. 
\par \par Lennart Rolland (chimeni at hotmail dot com).\par 
Contributed the Norwegian message translation. 
\par \par Lennart Steinke (lst at steinke dot net).\par 
Added the exconfig example, contributed keyboard layout detection code 
for Windows and suggested the true colour font rendering. 
\par \par Lisa Parratt (lisa at thecommune dot org dot uk).\par 
Contributed the SGI Audio Library sound driver, spotted a BSDism that 
IRIX doesn't like at all, added IRIX detection and improved the 
performances of the SGI audio driver 
\par \par Lorenzo Petrone (looris at gmail dot com).\par 
Contributed the gfxinfo utility, added two FAQ entries, added a 
xwin_set_window_name() function to the X11 port, added support for 
switch callbacks under X11 and refactored the display switching code. 
\par \par Lucas Vignoli Reis (lucasvr at bestway dot com dot br).\par 
Added the Portuguese (Brazil) message translation and keyboard mapping. 
\par \par Magnus Henoch (mange at freemail dot hu).\par 
Made the gfx mode selector keep the current selection as much as possible 
and fixed a problem when compiling without 8bpp support. 
\par \par Maiolino Carmelo (cmaiolino at ctonline dot it).\par 
Added the Italian keyboard mapping table. 
\par \par Manni Heumann (manfred dot heumann at uni-bielefeld dot de).\par 
Fixed some problems with the German keyboard mapping table. 
\par \par Marcel de Kogel (m dot dekogel at student dot utwente dot nl).\par 
Not content with fixing my broken MPU-401 driver, Marcel went on to 
provide a set of vastly improved drum sounds for the OPL driver, to help 
me sort out some problems with reentrant interrupts, to supply the half 
of the joystick code that didn't come from Jonathan and to locate a 
stupid mistake in my VESA linear framebuffer code. 
\par \par Marcel Smit (marcel dot athlon at hccnet dot nl).\par 
Corrected a bug that caused errors when drawing persp. correct polygons 
facing the screen, corrected an error in the packfile format write-up and 
made the show_video_bitmap() method of the Windows windowed driver wait 
for a vsync. 
\par \par Márcio Fialho (maaf1980 at yahoo dot com dot br).\par 
Fixed several issues with the DJGPP port and the VBE/AF driver and fixed 
some bugs related to author credits. 
\par \par Marco Campinoti (marco at etruscan dot li dot it).\par 
Added 15 and 24 bit support to the native Tseng ET4000 driver (now 
available as part of the FreeBE/AF project). 
\par \par Marco Marmulla (Viper005 at usa dot net).\par 
Added 16 bit support to the load_voc() routine. 
\par \par Marian Dvorsky (marian at step dot sk).\par 
Wrote the Windows GDI interface routines. 
\par \par Marius Fodor (iceman at teleport dot com).\par 
Added support for the Sidewinder and Gravis GamePad Pro. 
\par \par Marek Habersack (grendel at ananke dot amu dot edu dot pl).\par 
Did the original Linux console port (brave man: this was the first ever 
work done on porting Allegro away from DOS), which is the basis of the 
code we are still using today and added support for the more recent 
Trident chipsets (now available as part of the FreeBE/AF project). 
\par \par Mark Keller.\par 
Reported two minor mistakes in the manual. 
\par \par Mark Wodrich (mwodric at eleceng dot uct dot ac dot za).\par 
The brain behind sub-bitmaps, flicker-free mouse pointers, and the 
ability to import GRX .FNT files into the grabber. 
\par \par Markus F.X.J. Oberhumer (markus dot oberhumer at jk dot uni-linz dot ac dot at).\par 
Fixed the Video-7 scrolling function (now available as part of the 
FreeBE/AF project), optimised the color mapping routines, and made many 
useful suggestions like the addition of a vid_phys_base field to the 
graphics driver structure. 
\par \par Martijn Van Lersel (amarillion at yahoo dot com).\par 
Fixed an overflow in create_light_table(). 
\par \par Martijn Versteegh (m dot versteegh at hccnet dot nl).\par 
Added the config hook extension mechanism. 
\par \par Mathieu Lafon (mlafon at ifhamy dot insa-lyon dot fr).\par 
Added the French keyboard mapping, support for the Pause/PrtScr keys and 
changed the key[] table to a normal/extended bitfield. 
\par \par Matt Witherspoon (spoon at vt dot edu).\par 
Fixed a bug in the scroll() method of the Linux SVGAlib driver. 
\par \par Matthew Bowie (catcat at nmt dot edu).\par 
Added support for 4-button joysticks. 
\par \par Matthew Leverton (matthew at allegro dot cc).\par 
Fixed a bug with mouse mickeys in windowed mode under Windows, fixed a 
problem with al_find*() and NTFS partitions under Windows, added missing 
header files to be installed by the Windows binary distribution, made the 
DOS/Windows makefiles use 'copy /B' instead of 'copy', added the detection 
of left-hand mouse configuration under Windows, fixed a bug with 
pack_fgets(), made an online diff generator and did lots of other things too. 
\par \par Matthew Smith.\par 
Fix a bug in C locking code in GDI. 
\par \par Maxime Carey (werfu at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Contributed the Canada (French) keyboard mapping file. 
\par \par Michael Bevin (michael dot bevin at stonebow dot otago dot ac dot nz).\par 
Optimised the create_trans_table() function. 
\par \par Michael Bukin (M dot A dot Bukin at inp dot nsk dot su).\par 
Ported the whole thing to Unix/X, and contributed a _lot_ of patches to 
improve the portability, robustness, and performance of pretty much the 
entire library. 
\par \par Michael Faerber.\par 
Pointed out a mistake in the documentation for text_height(). 
\par \par Michael Jensen.\par 
Fixed a mistake in the documentation for is_compatible_font. 
\par \par Michael Rickmann (mrickma at gwdg dot de).\par 
Ported the Windows code to Mingw32. 
\par \par Michael Tanczos (webmaster at logic-gate dot com).\par 
Fixed some bugs in the FLIC player. 
\par \par Michal Mertl (mime at eunet dot cz).\par 
Wrote all the 24 bit graphics code, the optimised palette generation 
function and a fair amount of the other truecolor stuff too (bitmap 
scaling, image loading, etc). 
\par \par Michal Molhanec (molhanec at seznam dot cz).\par 
Simplified the build instructions for Dev-C++, replaced all occurences 
of MingW32 by MinGW in the docs, added an faq section about the giftware 
license, fixed problems with long filenames when building for MSVC, 
corrected a problem with the Watcom port, added MSVC7 options to the 
makefile, fixed a linker problem with the MSVC port, fixed some const 
warnings in the grabber code and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Michail Pishchagin (mblsha at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Contributed the ustrnicmp() function. 
\par \par Milan Mimica (milan dot mimica1 at pu dot htnet dot hr).\par 
Fixed bugs in the keyconf utility, the alsa 9 volume settings and 
extract_font_range(), helped fix an off-by-one mistake for the last glyph 
in extract_font_range, fixed a bug where a font would be converted to 8 
bit, a bug with is_color_font, made the Linux console driver more robust, 
fixed some spin loops in the test program, and added the get_volume and 
get_hardware_volume functions, and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Miran Amon (miran dot amon at gmail dot com).\par 
Fixed an undocumented arbitrary limit in get_config_argv() 
\par \par Nathan Albury, aka Rubicant (gt4558a at prism dot gatech dot edu).\par 
Improved the fire routine in examples/exflame.c (my original version 
didn't really look very much like flames :-) and gave me some extremely 
useful ideas about how to implement translucency. 
\par \par Nathan Smith (white_door at dread dot nl).\par 
Implemented the recursive handling of directories for the dat utility. 
\par \par Neil Townsend (neil at robots dot ox dot ac dot uk).\par 
Improved the accuracy of the timer routines and added the callback 
parameters. 
\par \par Neil Roy (neilroy at cogeco dot ca).\par 
Suggested many improvements to the documentation. 
\par \par Neil Walker.\par 
Implemented a hardware accelerated stretch_blit() for the Windows DX port, 
and fixed a bug with draw_sprite and sub-bitmaps. 
\par \par Nicholas Davies (master_goodbytes at hotmail dot com).\par 
Made the fix class not trigger warnings with gcc -Weffc++. 
\par \par Nick Kochakian (nickk at worldnet dot att dot net).\par 
Wrote the DirectSound input driver. 
\par \par Ole Laursen (98zOLaw at aalborghus dot dk).\par 
Contributed the Danish keyboard mapping table and system message 
translation, and made the Unicode utolower() and utoupper() functions 
understand the entire 16 bit character set. 
\par \par Olivier Blin (oblin at mandriva dot com).\par 
Fixed compilation problems for the ModeX driver. 
\par \par Olly Betts (olly at muscat dot co dot uk).\par 
Modified the djgpp makefile to support cross-compiling on a Linux machine. 
\par \par Omar Cornut (cornut at noos dot fr).\par 
Spotted an asm locking bug under Windows, bumped the maximum number of 
buttons per joystick to 32, fixed the Windows joystick driver to handle a 
weird peculiarity of the DirectInput API and improved the handling of 
KEY_COLON2 on Japanese keyboards. 
\par \par Oscar Giner (O_giner at hotmail dot com).\par 
Added the Catalan translation, corrected the Spanish translation, fixed a 
bug with binary data exporting in the grabber and fixed a conflict between 
the magic main and the MFC. 
\par \par Owen Embury (owen at gememail dot demon dot co dot uk).\par 
Wrote part of the translucency/lighting code. 
\par \par Owen Rudge (alleg at orudge dot freeuk dot com).\par 
Contributed a DLL version resource script and the mkdata.bat script. 
\par \par Ove Kaaven (ovek at arcticnet dot no).\par 
Fixed a bug in the ATI mach64 driver (now available as part of the 
FreeBE/AF project), added native truecolor and linear framebuffer support 
to the ATI driver, contributed the Norwegian keyboard mapping, and added 
MIDI and sample input features to the MPU and SB drivers respectively. 
\par \par Paavo Ahola (email unknown).\par 
Helped fix a problem with BCC and the C implementations of fixmul. 
\par \par Patrick Hogan (patter at iname dot com).\par 
Wrote the draw_gouraud_sprite() function, and made Windows audiostreams 
work properly. 
\par \par Paul Bartrum (bartrum at xtra dot co dot nz).\par 
Contributed the ellipse drawing functions. 
\par \par Paul Eipper.\par 
Reported a bug where libdir from autotools was not used for the modules path. 
\par \par Paul Furber (paul at sprintlink dot co dot za).\par 
Provided the floating point apply_matrix_f() function. 
\par \par Paul Hampson (Paul dot Hampson at Pobox dot Com).\par 
Improved and fixed some problems in the SNES gamepad driver. 
\par \par Paul Pinault (diskaleg at infonie dot fr).\par 
Translated the system error messages into French. 
\par \par Pavlos Touboulidis (gtoub at otenet dot gr).\par 
Made file_select() able to include or exclude files based on their 
attributes. 
\par \par Pedro Cardoso (pcardoso at viriato dot ipv dot pt).\par 
Contributed the tweaked 80x80 VGA mode. 
\par \par Peter Cech (7cech at nw dot fmph dot uniba dot sk).\par 
Added grabber support for the 8x8 BIOS font format, support for 
hot-swapping between a custom keyboard layout and the standard US 
mapping, optimised the alpha sprite blending routines and added non-ASCII 
space recognition to uisspace(). 
\par \par Peter De Wachter.\par 
Made the ALSA driver work for hardware which does not support unsigned 
samples. 
\par \par Peter Hull (peterhull90 at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Made the file selector work with directories that have more than 2048 
files, solved some compiling issues on MacOS X, fixed a bug in rest() 
that caused it to wait too long on that platform, fixed several problems 
with the hardware mouse cursor, fixed a deadlock in the software mouse 
updating code, fixed compilation problems under MacOS X tiger, added a 
MacOS X helpfile and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Peter Johansson (email unknown).\par 
Reported a problem with system cursors not working in Windows. 
\par \par Peter Monks (pmonks at iname dot com).\par 
Wrote the Video-7 graphics driver (now available as part of the FreeBE/AF 
project) and showed me how to set up the unchained 640x400 mode. 
\par \par Peter Palotas (blizzar at hem1 dot passagen dot se).\par 
Added the keyboard callback routine. 
\par \par Peter Pavlovic (Peter dot Pavlovic at st dot fmph dot uniba dot sk).\par 
Added the Slovak keyboard mapping and message translation, stopped the 
DOS file selector from listing virtual drives, did the same for the 
Windows file selector, improved the support for accented character maps in 
the keyboard driver and made aesthetic modifications to the GUI menu 
system. 
\par \par Peter Puck (zaqhaq at netscape dot net).\par 
Helped with the Mingw32 native build. 
\par \par Peter Wang (tjaden at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Added the mouse_z wheel input support to the Linux code, fixed problems 
with the ESD sound driver, wrote the ALSA sound driver, wrote the BeOS 
sound driver, added OSS MIDI and sample input support, added banked mode 
support to the SVGAlib driver, wrote the X DGA mode switching code, 
improved the Linux joystick driver, X11 fullscreen, DGA2 and DGA driver, 
added pthread timers under Linux/Unix and did loads of other things too. 
\par \par Phil Frisbie, Jr. (pfrisbie at geocities dot com).\par 
Wrote the CPU type detection code. 
\par \par Phil Krylov.\par 
Fixed a bug in load_bios_font(). 
\par \par Phil Shenk (email unknown).\par 
Improved the MSVC build instructions. 
\par \par Philipp Thomas (pthomas at suse dot de).\par 
Fixed all comparisons between signed and unsigned types, fixed compilation 
on x86-64, fixed all function prototypes, converted the configure 
machinery to autoconf 2.53 or later and added multi-arch support, DESTDIR 
support and the German translation to the RPM spec file. 
\par \par Przemek Podsiadly (ppodsiad at elka dot pw dot edu dot pl).\par 
Added hicolor versions of the 3d polygon code. 
\par \par Revin Guillen (revin at phylo dot com).\par 
Added the position_dialog() function. 
\par \par Richard Davies (richard at debaser dot force9 dot co dot uk).\par 
Added support for PSX and N64 joypads. 
\par \par Richard Mitton (100740 dot 1271 at compuserve dot com).\par 
Added support for 6-button joysticks, and wrote the 12-bit color example 
program (ex12bit.c). 
\par \par Richard Reeve (r dot e dot reeve at stir dot ac dot uk).\par 
Fixed a silly mistake with gcc 3.0.x detection. 
\par \par Rikard Peterson.\par 
Fixed a small problem with the Mac OS X joystick driver. 
\par \par Robert J. Ragno (rjr at mit dot edu).\par 
Wrote the Gravis GrIP driver, made some improvements to the Wingman, PSX 
and throttle input code. 
\par \par Robert J. Ohannessian (voidstar at ifrance dot com).\par 
Added MMX optimisation for the 8 and 16-bit clear() functions, fixed bad 
clearing of subbitmaps, added SSE detection and optimised some masked 
blits with SSE instructions, added some routines to the unified color 
convertor and made some of them more robust, fixed the docs for 
pivot_scaled_sprite_v_flip(), revamped the retrieval mechanism of CPU 
capabilities, separated the CSS file and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Roberto Alfonso (rpgrca at labint dot frba dot utn dot edu dot ar).\par 
Fixed a couple of memory problems in the dat2c utility, added an 
srand() call in the demo game, made the MSVC port call `link /lib' 
rather than `lib', fixed several warnings with GCC 4 under DJGPP and 
fixed a grabber crash when importing a font range in an existing font. 
\par \par Robin Burrows (rburrows at bigfoot dot com).\par 
Provided a new page flipping code for the DirectDraw subsytem, added a 
Windows sound driver using the Allegro mixer and another using waveOut, 
fixed two glitches in the DirectDraw code. 
\par \par Romano Signorelli (romanos at bigfoot dot com).\par 
Added an arc plotting routine. 
\par \par Ron Novy\par 
Made several improvements to the test program. 
\par \par Ronaldo Hideki Yamada (r dot yamada at uol dot com dot br).\par 
Contributed the MacOS 9 port of Allegro. 
\par \par Ryan Patterson.\par 
Made various documentation fixes and fixed a crash in free_config_entries. 
\par \par S.Sakamaki (emt at geocities dot co dot jp).\par 
Added the VESA 3.0 refresh rate control code. 
\par \par S.Suzuki (s-suz at sunfield dot ne dot jp).\par 
Wrote the IF-SEGA /PCI, /PCI2, and /ISA joystick interface drivers. 
\par \par Salvador Eduardo Tropea (salvador at inti dot edu dot ar).\par 
Improved the keyboard routines (better handling of extended scancodes, 
keyboard LED support, capslock and numlock, and alt+numpad input), 
contributed the 320x100 VGA graphics mode, added support for proper 16 
bit sample mixing, fixed compilation on gcc 3.x and made numerous other 
useful suggestions, contributions and bugfixes. 
\par \par Sam Hocevar (sam at zoy dot org).\par 
Fixed a Bashism in fix.sh that makes Solaris' sh choke, a race 
condition in the mixer under Unix w/ threads, Windows, BeOS and MacOS X, 
a crash in makedoc, made it possible to put functions from .s sources 
in a shared library under Unix and removed deprecated use of several 
functions. 
\par \par Santeri Saarimaa (gridle at mbnet dot fi).\par 
Made the Finnish keyboard mapping. 
\par \par Sask Allegro (sask_allegro at iespana dot es).\par 
Added support for more than two joysticks in the Windows port. 
\par \par Scott Harrison (scotth at calderauk dot com).\par 
Added the OpenDOS detection code. 
\par \par Sean Gugler (sean at epal dot com).\par 
Added the set_leds() function. 
\par \par Seunghwan Ji (email unknown).\par 
Made makedoc output correct html and rtf files for Korean. 
\par \par Serge Semashko (serge at lxnt dot info).\par 
Fixed a bug with the letter P in the Russian keyboard configuration 
file, added Enter as a fire key to the demo game, fixed some 
problems with Allegro working on Nokia 770, and fixed a crash in 
_linear_draw_trans_rgba_rle_sprite24. 
\par \par Seymour Shlien (seymour at dgbt dot doc dot ca).\par 
Contributed the Windows BMP file reader, bezier spline drawer, and 
justified text plotting function. 
\par \par Shawn Hargreaves (shawn at talula dot demon dot co dot uk).\par 
Progenitor. Wrote everything that wasn't written by somebody else. 
\par \par Shawn Walker (binarycrusader at gmail dot com).\par 
Several fixes to the .spec file, made get_executable_name use getexecname() 
under Solaris, fixed a bug in the keyboard driver that caused crashes on 
the same system, worked around errors with some versions of GNU AS and fixed 
errors in the configure script when not using GCC 
\par \par StApostol (stapostol at gmail dot com).\par 
Fixed a bug in the exflame example and updated the FAQ to use rest(0) instead 
of yield_timeslice(). 
\par \par Stefan Eilert (seilert at rz dot Uni-Osnabrueck dot DE).\par 
Added support for a second joystick. 
\par \par Stefan Schimanski (1Stein at gmx dot de).\par 
Wrote the original Windows version pretty much single-handedly. 
\par \par Stefan T. Boettner (virtual dot man at t-online dot de).\par 
Wrote the Linux SVGAlib driver. 
\par \par Stepan Roh (src at srnet dot cz).\par 
Added a Czech keyboard mapping and system message translation, the Latin 
Extended-A characters in the default font, the codepage support in the 
textconv utility, fixed some problems with the ESD sound driver, helped 
make Allegro build better on some Unix platforms, fixed const related 
problems in C versions of routines and added support for a automake-style 
DESTDIR variable in the Unix makefile. 
\par \par Stephan Brauss (sbrauss at optronic dot ch).\par 
Made a few fixes to let the Linux port compile again on Linux 2.2.x, 
corrected a few nits in the Swiss keyboard configuration file and added 
new keysyms to the X11-to-BIOS conversion table in order to catch missing 
keycodes for the keypad when NumLock is on. 
\par \par Stephen Kittelson (stickman2000 at juno dot com).\par 
Made bugfixes and tweaks to the keyboard system. 
\par \par Stijn Wolters.\par 
Clarified the documentation of init_dialog. 
\par \par Sveinung Kvilhaugsvik(email unknown).\par 
Pointed out that Allegro should respect DESTDIR under MacOS X. 
\par \par Sven Sandberg (svens at it dot uu dot se).\par 
Fixed a problem with save_bitmap() rounding the image widths, optimised 
the create_light_table() function, optimised the fixed point trigonometric 
routines, provided the Swedish message translations, improved the file 
selector sorting algorithm, optimised the spline routines, added 
ustrrchr(), improved the usprintf() handling of floats, changed the 
Z-buffer API, and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par TBD/FeR (tbd at usa dot net).\par 
Added the 320x600 and 360x600 resolutions to the mode-X driver. 
\par \par Teijo Hakala (teijo dot hakala at imnetti dot fi).\par 
Added wheel support to the Windows mouse driver. 
\par \par Tero Parvinen (Tero dot Parvinen at hut dot fi).\par 
Designed most of the new sound API. 
\par \par Theuzifan Sumachingun (uzi at simauria dot upv dot es).\par 
Improved the cpu detection for Cyrix chips and made the file selector 
only list valid drive letters. 
\par \par Thomas Fjellstrom (tfjellstrom at home dot com).\par 
Wrote the ALSA 0.5.x MIDI driver and added support for ALSA 0.9.x. 
\par \par Thomas Harte (email unknown).\par 
Helped fix a bug in show_video_bitmap() on MacOS X, helped optimise 
fixmul(), helped find many bugs in the MacOS X port, like better support 
for user-supplied Nibs, implemented a hardware accelerated stretch_blit 
under DirectX, and fixed a bug with draw_sprite and sub-bitmaps. 
\par \par Thomas Klausner (wiz at danbala dot ifoer dot tuwien dot ac dot at).\par 
Added NetBSD detection and fixed a problem with the allegro.m4 macro and 
automake 1.8+. 
\par \par Thomas Wolf (two at chello dot at).\par 
Corrected some errors in the German keyboard mapping and added the 
German translation of the system messages. 
\par \par Tim Bird (tbird at caldera dot com).\par 
Worked on the Linux console port. 
\par \par Tim Gunn (timgunn at eastwind dot com dot au).\par 
Wrote the TGA reading/writing routines. 
\par \par Timothy Terriberry (sundance at sprintmail dot com).\par 
Fixed several bugs in the RGB <-> HSV conversion routines. 
\par \par Tobi Vollebregt (email unknown).\par 
Spotted a bug in ustrerror(), which was not returning a pointer to 
a static buffer, reported a problem with shutdown_dialog() when a 
menu was open, helped port the Windows keyboard driver to Windows 98 
and fixed a bug with hardware cursor detection in X11. 
\par \par Tobias Dammers.\par 
Fixed a problem with the DirectSound input driver. 
\par \par Tom Breton (tob at world dot std dot com).\par 
Added the functionality selection #ifndefs to allegro.h. 
\par \par Tom Novelli (tnovelli at cyber3 dot servtech dot com).\par 
Wrote the original version of the digital MIDI driver. 
\par \par Tom St Denis (tomstdenis at yahoo dot com).\par 
Fixed clipping of transparent objects. 
\par \par Tomohiko Sugiura (tmsugi at d4 dot dion dot ne dot jp).\par 
Added the KEY_ABNT_C1, KEY_YEN, KEY_KANA, KEY_CONVERT, KEY_NOCONVERT 
and other keys to the input handler, organised getting the IF-SEGA 
joystick drivers by S.Suzuki merged into my codebase and added a more 
aggressive Sidewinder joystick driver. 
\par \par Tore Halse (gnolam at gmail dot com).\par 
Made Allegro windows always popup centred in Windows and made fixes to the 
documentation. 
\par \par torhu.\par 
Fixed an out-of-bounds error in akaitest. 
\par \par Trent Gamblin.\par 
Implemented set_mouse_speed under X11, fixed the C version of stretch_blit 
and made the fullscreen DirectX driver save and restore the palette on 
switching away. 
\par \par V Karthik Kumar (karthikkumar at gmail dot com).\par 
Added a Tamil language greeting to exunicode, added switches to use 
the Intel compiler in Windows and added a password option to the Windows 
screensaver example. Also fixed a problem with allegro-config. 
\par \par Victor Williams Stafusa da Silva (vwss1984 at yahoo dot com dot br).\par 
Changed a few occurences of "256" to PAL_SIZE and made OS type detection 
handle Windows 2003 and Windows Vista. 
\par \par Ville Skyttä (scop at users dot sourceforge dot net).\par 
Fixed a problem with make install libdir= and modules on Unix systems. 
\par \par Vincent Penquerc'h (lyrian at kezako dot net).\par 
Added the D_DIRTY flag and mouse button press/release events to the GUI 
system, optimised the 256 to truecolor blitting code to avoid repeated 
conversions of the palette table, added scare_mouse_area(), added the 
yield_timeslice() function, added the update selection function to the 
grabber, added the XCRP and YCRP properties to datafiles in general, 
implemented the big header split and did plenty of other things too. 
\par \par Vitaliy Chetverikov (email unknown).\par 
Fixed a bug in the GUI where the return value of MSG_IDLE was ignored. 
\par \par VolkerOth (VolkerOth at aol dot com).\par 
Integrated the concepts of scrolling and edit_proc objects. 
\par \par \par \par \par {\s2 \f0\fs48\sa600\pagebb\keepn\ul {\xe\v Thanks!}Thanks!\par }
First, a big thank you to all the people who help me test and debug this 
code. It sometimes gets frustrating to receive hundreds of messages 
saying "it doesn't work!", but they are useful all the same... 
\par \par Andre Baresel (baresel at informatik dot hu-berlin dot de), 
and Craig Jackson (Craig dot Jackson at launchpad dot unc dot edu), 
provided a tremendous amount of information about SB hardware. 
\par \par Benji York (Benji at cookeville dot com).\par 
Provided hardware information for the Gravis GamePad Pro. 
\par \par Charles Mac Donald (cgfm2 at hooked dot net).\par 
Showed me how to set some cool tweaked VGA and mode-X resolutions. 
\par \par Charles Sandmann (sandmann at clio dot rice dot edu), 
DJ Delorie (dj at delorie dot com), 
Eli Zaretskii (eliz at is dot elta dot co dot il), 
and everyone else who has contributed to djgpp. I love it. 
\par \par C. Schwerdtfeger (schwerdt at physics dot ubc dot ca), 
for his help (and enourmous patience!) in getting the SB Pro-I MIDI 
driver to work. 
\par \par Finn Thoegersen, Nordbanevej 3 C, DK-7800 Skive, Denmark.\par 
Most of my SVGA hardware information came from his VGADOC package. 
\par \par Eric Jorgensen (smeagol at rt66 dot com).\par 
Varmint's Audio Tools (VAT) gave me many useful ideas about how to play 
MIDI files. 
\par \par Jamie O'Connell (JamieOConnell at msn dot com).\par 
Several of the new Adlib drum patches, and the specifications for the 
.IBK file format, came from his SBTimbre package. 
\par \par Jean-Paul Mikkers (mikmak at stack dot urc dot tue dot nl).\par 
MikMod was the source of a lot of information about programming the SB, 
and also gave me the idea of dynamically reprogramming the PIT to get a 
really high resolution timer. 
\par \par Joel H. Hunter (jhunter at kendaco dot telebyte dot com).\par 
His SB library for djgpp is excellent, and helped me a lot. 
\par \par John Pollard (74723 dot 1626 at compuserve dot com).\par 
The FM instrument definitions are based on his MID-KIT library. 
\par \par Kendall Bennett and all the other cool people at SciTech Software.\par 
These guys gave the world UniVBE, the VBE/AF API, and a lot of free 
information and example code. Plus they very kindly sent me a copy of the 
VBE/AF spec when I wanted one. 
\par \par Kris Heidenstrom (kheidens at actrix dot gen dot nz).\par 
His PC timing FAQ was a big help. 
\par \par Mark Feldman.\par 
It goes without saying that the PCGPE was an invaluable resource. 
\par \par Michael Abrash.\par 
You just gotta love that man... 
\par \par Paul Fenwick (bg914 at freenet dot carleton dot ca).\par 
Various bits of the mode-X code (notably the split screen stuff) came 
from his XLIBDJ library. 
\par \par powerjaw (powerjaw at dnai dot com).\par 
Sent me a Sidewinder gamepad so I could fix some problems with the driver 
for it. What a cool thing to do... 
\par \par Robert Grubbs (rwgrubbs at vt dot edu).\par 
Provided hardware information for the Sidewinder joypad. 
\par \par Robert Schmidt (robert at stud dot unit dot no).\par 
The register values for the 400x* mode-X resolutions came from his TWEAK 
program. 
\par \par Sourceforge.net (http://sourceforge.net/).\par 
The Allegro community has been using their services (web, mailing lists, 
CVS, Subversion, etc) since 3.9.x WIP versions. 
\par \par Tom Grandgent (tgrand at canvaslink dot com).\par 
Organised and hosted the original Allegro mailing lists for many years. 
Hurrah! 
\par \par Vladimir Arnost (xarnos00 at dcse dot fee dot vutbr dot cz).\par 
Provided hardware specs for the OPL3 chip. 
\par \par Frank Zappa, Mike Keneally, Pink Floyd, the Doors, Tori Amos, and all the 
other great musicians who provide me with things to listen to while I am 
programming. 
\par \par My parents, John and Nancy.\par 
I would never have made it through all those late night coding sessions 
without the cafetiere they gave me last Christmas :-) 
\par \par \par \par By Shawn Hargreaves, Allegro creator. 
\par \par \par \par }
